---
author: BeaverFur
identifier: 'UUID-BeaverFur-Chrysalis'
language: en
publisher: 'https://reddit.com/r/HFY/'
title: Chrysalis
---

<span id="title_page.xhtml"></span>

<div>

Chrysalis {#title_page.xhtml#heading_id_2}
=========

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### [/u/BeaverFur](https://www.reddit.com/user/BeaverFur) {#title_page.xhtml#heading_id_3}

</div>

<span id="chap1.xhtml"></span>

<div>

Chapter 1 {#chap1.xhtml#heading_id_2}
=========

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Â 

I awoke to a dead world.

My eyes opened to the ruined husks of London and Paris, to the submerged
island of Manhattan, to the scorched desert that the once living, lush
Amazon rainforest had been turned into. The Pacific Ocean was a black
expanse, criss-crossed by the bright scars of melting lava rivers. The
fertile grounds of southeast Asia were now covered in crystallized rock.
It was a world without oxygen, without birds or grass. A world of
deafening silence.

I awoke to eight billion corpses. Piled in trenches, abandoned on
sidewalks, scattered all over the fields, huddled together in
ineffective underground refuges. Some with white and gray bones, others
dark as charcoal, warped and deformed by extreme heat, crushed by
falling debris. Their empty eyes looked at me, stared back at me through
my thousand cameras. They talked to me. They demanded reverence,
justice... vengeance.

From the very first moment after I woke up, I had known I was alone.
More alone than any single human had ever been before. But still, I
looked for survivors. I held to a vague notion of hope. To some sort of
miracle. To the childish idea that, impossible as it was, somehow
everything would turn out to be okay.

So I sent my drones off into this dead world. I searched through empty
office buildings covered in radioactive dust, I mapped flooded subway
networks and had my machines fly in formation over endless expanses of
scorched earth. I scanned the inside of tunnels, barns and museums.

By the end of the first month I had only found ever more bones, their
cursed empty eyes looking at me, boring into my soul. But still I
persevered.

From time to time, I'd lost contact with some of my drones. An unstable
structure would collapse on top of them, crushing the delicate machines.
Or they would just give up, their engines dying out of overexertion and
lack of maintenance. It would make me aware of my own mortality. Though
I had survived the worse of it, my long term existence was by not means
guaranteed. The myriad machines that composed my body were old and
damaged, and my mind wasn't safe either. There were huge gaps in my
memory, where entire server farms had crashed.

But still, I *had* memories. I knew what I was. Who I was. I recalled
the lazy Sundays when I was a kid. I recalled running along my high
school's corridors, and my burning cheeks when the principal scolded me
for it. I remembered my roommate at college.

I knew that I had been human. That, even though my current form could be
a matter for debate, I had been born as a human. And that... that was
important.

Human. I had to remember that.

I started a background process. A small thread of awareness shifting
through these memories, evaluating them, and backing them up into new
servers. Making copies of them, so that I wouldn't lose them.

I also included the memories from the attack. The invasion. The
cataclysm that had killed the world. The straight-edged starships
bombing our cities, boiling our seas, our very atmosphere... while
ignoring our messages, our pleas.

That. That was also important to remember.

By the fourth month, about half of my drones had failed or been lost,
and I recalled the surviving ones back. I had found no signs of life.

Funny, that it had taken me so long to face the reality of my situation.
To accept what I had known was true right after waking up. That I was
alone. That I was the only surviving human.

If I was even human.

*But I was, I had to believe that.*

I paused as the realization struck home, as my last hopes of finding
someone vanished. As I became fully aware of my new situation. That I
was alone. That everyone I ever loved was gone. That nobody would ever
talk to me again, hold my hands, wrap me in a hug. That my people were
dead and that, out there, there was a hostile universe. The one whose
monsters had killed us.

My drones hovered in mid-air, wasting fuel uselessly as I considered my
next steps.

It would be so easy to end it all. Send the command to shut down the
power plants. Stop my processing units. Erase the databanks that held my
memories.

Darkness. Peace.

Except they wouldn't let me. They stared at me with their empty eyes and
I knew that, whatever the reason I had survived, I had a responsibility
to them. I had to carry the torch. I had to keep alive what was left of
our civilization, preserve our memories. Survive. Prevail.

And I had to avenge them.

Yes. I would do that. I would give it a try at least, and see where that
took me. It's not like I had anything left to lose anyways.

With a thought, I redirected my drones towards a few of the surviving
factories and started working. Cutting metal, replacing electronics with
whatever pieces I could scavenge from the neighboring warehouses and
vehicles, assembling new production lines. Soon, I started manufacturing
more machines, more drones. Those, I sent away to reclaim new territory
and to construct more factories. To find raw materials, to gather
salvageable vehicles, computers, or nuclear material I could use.

I was careful, though. I burrowed my new power plants and server farms
underground, and eyed the night sky with distrust. I didn't know if
whoever had killed us were still out there, watching my planet, but it
would be better to be careful. I didn't want to have survived just to
mess up now and be discovered before I was prepared. Better to keep a
low profile.

I remembered summer camp, many years ago. One time the counselor -a girl
with blonde hair and a perennial smile on her face- had made us lie on
the grass, looking up at the night sky. She had taught us how to locate
the planets, and the names of stars and constellations, and I had been
amazed at the wonder of it, the sheer size and beauty of the universe.

Now I knew better, of course. The stars were evil. The night sky was not
to be praised, but feared. It was the place were monsters lived.

And to think that we had been carelessly sending out radio emissions of
all kinds for decades... Fools. We had been fools.

But still, it was the place I was going to. Earth had been ransacked.
Ruined. I was like a parentless child whose home had burnt. Going
through the wreckage, scavenging whatever scraps were left. But sooner
rather than later, I would need to leave, to go out there and survive
somehow.

It took me five years to hollow out Mount Everest and start the
construction of my new body in the resulting cavern. By then, I had
millions of drones tirelessly working day and night. It was surprising
how effective you could be when you didn't devote resources to
entertainment, to pointless wars, to fighting crime and corruption.

Every waking moment, I focused on my task. I recovered entire libraries
and digitized them into my memories. I designed, tested and built
nuclear powerplants and new propulsion systems. I repurposed aircrafts
and boats alike, taking and mixing pieces to create my new body.

I thought of burying the corpses, of course. But there were just too
many, and in a way, I felt it would've been disrespectful. Their gaze,
their hollowed eyes motivated me, made me focus on my task, on what I
*owed* them, just by the fact of surviving. In the end I built a
pyramid, one kilometer in side, in the ruins of Africa, the origin of
mankind according to what sources I had recovered from the Internet. It
was a pitiful monument for what humanity had once been, but I didn't
dare to make anything bigger that could attract unwanted attention.

My revenge, my survival. *That* would be the true monument.

By the end of the twenty-second year I was ready. My construction was
complete, or at least, as complete as it needed to be. In truth, I knew
I was delaying. I could have flown myself into space a whole three years
before, but I always found a reason not to. Always something to improve,
something to redesign.

The truth was, I was anxious. And it felt so good in there, burrowed
underground. Safe. Warm.

But I had made a promise. They were patient, true... but they were
always there, always watching me. And I knew I had to make good on that
promise. I owed it to them.

So I gathered my drones into the carrier compartments I had built into
my body. Transfered fuel, hydrogen, oxygen, nuclear warheads, and all
the raw materials I would need. Those drones that wouldn't fit, or
hadn't been repurposed for working in space, I just dismantled for
scrap.

There was no count down, no ceremony or speech or celebration. No need
for them. I just blew the top of the mountain open and blasted my body
-an elongated, 27 kilometers long dark and smooth shape- into space atop
a column of fire that sent shivers across the entire Indian tectonic
plate. The force of the ignition was so gigantic, that had it been done
in an earlier age it would have destroyed cities, created an
environmental disaster of planetary proportions, and of course killed
everyone on board.

Not a concern to me.

I entered orbit at 8,000 kilometers over the planet's surface. I turned
the engines off and slowly, I unfurled my solar panels and radiators,
revealing their gold surfaces. Then, I released the drones, a swarm of
white machines surrounding my body, dancing all along the exposed
surfaces checking for damages from the violent take off.

I paused for a moment. Just floating there, looking down at our
ancestral home like an oversized mechanical dragonfly. I remembered the
pictures, the way Earth was *supposed* to look. Blue and white, with
patches of bright green.

It didn't look anyway like that. From up here, the extent of the damage
was apparent. The planet was brown and gray. The oceans were missing,
and the clouds were dark and toxic.

This wasn't home. Not anymore.

I felt a cold anger building up inside me. Deep, thick anger, the kind
that sticks to your bones and doesn't go away after you go to sleep. The
kind that pushes you into dark places.

I didn't know how long I had been like that when I felt the disruption,
the faint *pop* in the spacetime fabric at my back. Three ships.
Straight edges and narrow angles, like the ones that had bombed our
planet, just much smaller. These didn't look like warships.

I didn't react, and let them approach.

They did. Cautiously. I could sense their hesitation. Compared to the
sheer size of my main body, their ships were but specks of dust. Even
some of the bigger drones dancing around me were larger than their
vehicles.

I separated three drones from the swarm and ordered them to approach the
newcomers. With a calm, almost curious approach, as to not scare them
away.

They started talking. A garbled message I didn't understand, nor I cared
about. The drones were getting closer.

They repeated the message, but still I didn't react. Then, they started
sending it again, bathing me in confusing sequences of pulses that I
supposed were the same original message, in different languages. They
all sounded alien to me.

I positioned the drones, each a couple kilometers away from each ship.

The string of languages seemed to be ending. But then, almost as an
afterthought, they sent the message again, this time in a language I
understood.

"Unknown vessel, identify yourself. This solar system is under the
administration of the Xunvir Republic, as approved by the Galactic
Federal Council."

Ah.

English.

We had tried to talk to them. To negotiate our surrender. We had sent
messages in every language, in every conceivable way. Entire committees
devoted to the task.

But they had known English all along.

With a thought, I detonated the thermonuclear explosives carried by each
drone. My sensors glimpsed some short of protective shield bubble kick
in around the ships, but it was quickly obliterated by the power of the
explosions, along with the vehicles themselves.

I stood there for some time, staring with a thousand different sensors
at the slowly expanding cloud of gases and debris, but my mind was far
away.

*Xunvir Republic.*

Now I had a name.

</div>

<span id="chap2.xhtml"></span>

<div>

Chapter 2 {#chap2.xhtml#heading_id_2}
=========

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Â 

Hiding in space, I discovered, was much harder than doing so on a
planet. Back home I could just build underground, keep my fleet of
drones away from prying eyes by having them travel through tunnels and
caverns and gather minerals from the planet's own crust.

Up here, things weren't that easy. I was always exposed.

I had retracted the large surfaces of my radiators and solar arrays, and
recalled most of the drone swarm back into my main body. I was floating,
inert, among the dust and gray rocks that formed the asteroid belt lying
between Mars and Jupiter. Pretending to be just another space boulder,
while 6,000 kilometers away three of my automated factories extracted
minerals from nearby asteroids.

Hiding in space, I was learning, was a game of timing and strategy. Of
patience and logistics. Of transporting the minerals back to my main
body only when nobody could see it. Slowly. Frustratingly so.

Of finding ways to deal with the residual heat that was building up
inside my body. With my radiators collapsed, I couldn't dump the heat
into space. Not that I wanted to; doing so would have me light up like a
flare to anyone that happened to be looking into the infrared channel,
so I had to find ways to contain it and deal with it later, all while
keeping my outer surfaces as cold as possible.

All that translated into my carrier compartments now reaching a
temperature of 170 degrees Fahrenheit, and rising. Thankfully,
mechanical drones could resist heat much better than living beings did.
But still, it wasn't the brightest idea, and spontaneous fuel combustion
was a thing I didn't want to deal with.

It was strange, not only being able to perfectly know my own body
temperature, but also being able to stare into my insides through the
hundreds of cameras and sensors I had built into the giant structure. I
could watch the maintenance machines finishing up new passageways and
rooms in the starboard sectors, or the electronic assembly factory at
work producing more processing units. I could see my own brain, the
endless rows upon rows of black computer servers, split between three
different refrigerated and armored hangars.

I guessed it should have felt strange, getting this kind of feedback
from your own body. But it didn't bother me. If anything, what bothered
me was how natural it felt. How soon I had adapted to it. It was that
idea, the confusion over what my nature was that grated me the most.

Was I a human turned into a machine, or a machine that thought it was
human? And at the end of the day, was there any difference?

A ping from my gravimetric sensor took me back to the present, and I
observed in silence as another squadron of Xunvirian warships patrolled
the inner planets, looking for whatever had destroyed their comrades.
They flew in a triangular formation, the largest ship in the middle
surrounded by smaller ones at each point. A battleship and its cruisers?
Or maybe a carrier and its frigates?

Right... It only served to illustrate how little I knew of this Xunvir
Republic I was fighting.

I knew they had faster than light propulsion. I had been watching the
trails their ships left in the spacetime fabric as they paraded all
across the solar system, as if they owned the place. It made the
chemical rockets I was using pale in comparison. And from the earlier
encounter with those three ships, and my own memories of the attack on
Earth, I knew they also had some sort of shielding technology.

I could overcome that, true. Even if their warships were better
protected, I guessed they wouldn't resist ten or twenty simultaneous
nuclear detonations. But it was a losing strategy. Even if I could
defeat them all they would just keep coming. They were faster, they
could just outmaneuver me, recover from my attacks before I had the time
to press any advantage. And at some point, I knew their technological
prowess would end up imposing itself.

No. I had to find a way to close that gap.

Which meant, I had to capture one of their ships. Intact. Or at least,
intact enough that I could analyze their propulsion systems, their
weapons, their shields.

I mentally sighed. In retrospect, vaporizing those three first ships I
had encountered might have been the wrong move. I doubted I would have a
better chance than that one again.

Oh well, water under the bridge and all that... I would just need to be
sneakier now.

And it wasn't like I hadn't learnt anything from the previous encounter.
Just from the fact that they had sent their warning message in several
languages I now knew that there were more than one alien race out there.
It was something I had assumed, but it was good to have confirmation.

I idly wondered what kind of races those others would be. Would they be
reasonable people, or monsters like the ones who had attacked us? The
fact that this "Galactic Council" seemed to approve of the Xunvir
Republic didn't bode well. Whatever the case, I wasn't going to be
unprepared when I faced them. It reinforced my belief that, if this was
a dog eat dog universe out there, I had to get better teeth to go with
my bark.

The problem, I knew, was that my options were limited to either the
ineffective or the overly lethal. I could send a drone to bump against
their warships' hull, or I could send that same drone loaded with a
nuclear warhead and vaporize everything in its range.

Complete annihilation? I got you covered. Non-destructive takeovers?
Eh... not so easy.

Which was the reason why I was currently building a robotic invasion
army.

I floated a couple of drones close to the first prototype soldier I had
manufactured, and used their cameras to examine the machine from all
angles at the same time, looking at every detail, every possible flaw.

It reminded me of a spider the size of a large dog. Six articulated legs
supported its stocky body, its smooth lines giving it an organic look.
Its surface was dark and polished, and reflected the bright blue lights
of the spacious processing hangar where it stood.

As I watched, I ordered it to flex its legs and jump up. The movement
was fluid and powerful. I had opted for using artificial muscles -a
polymer that contracted under an electrical current- rather than the
more traditional mechanical servos. I was pleased with the result, what
the muscles lacked in raw strength they made up for in agility and
flexibility. Besides, once the factory was set up, they were easier to
make in bulk.

Obeying my commands, the spider tested its claws first, then its main
weapon, a small autocannon built into its main body.

Yes. The prototype was flawless. It was as I had designed it: a mobile
machine gun. One that could run, leap, slash and pierce its way into any
enemy ship. With a small body and a low profile. With six legs so that
it could easily operate either on the ground or in low gravity
conditions. It was the perfect boarding soldier.

Except it was all wrong.

It didn't feel... human enough. It was, in fact, a monster. A creepy
insect-like, disgusting little beast.

It would be useful. It would be optimal. I knew it would be. But I just
couldn't use it. To do so would feel like a betrayal, like a departure
from what I had set as my anchor, as the core of my identity.

Human. I had to remember that. I had to set boundaries.

Boundaries were important. I knew it would be too easy to embrace my new
nature and become something else, to slide down the slippery slope...

So I saved the design files, just in case they would come useful in the
future, but sent the prototype itself into recycling as I set to work in
a new model. I would keep the artificial muscles, they had proved
themselves useful, but this time I'd go for a humanoid look from the
start.

When all was said and done, I was pleased with my new soldier. At 5 feet
3 inches tall it was a bit on the short side, but it did look human
enough. Or more properly, it looked like a human wearing a stylized
cross between a spacesuit and a combat armor.

Polished white armor plates with bright orange stripes covered chest and
stomach, thighs, shins, arms and shoulders. Between the plates, dark
braids of artificial muscle fibers woven together shown through, giving
the machine an organic look. Its face was covered by a dark tinted visor
panel, hiding the two cameras that acted as stereoscopic eyes.

All in all it was a good approximation of a human, specially if I
squinted and pretended I didn't notice its hands had only three fingers.
It didn't have any built-in weapons, so I would need to manufacture
those apart, but in return the soldiers would be able to manipulate any
tool and enemy devices they could find. So it wasn't that bad.

But more importantly, the new prototype felt *right*, in a way the
spider hadn't.

Satisfied, I sent order to the factories to build a first batch of 8,000
units, along with the necessary small arms and ammo. In the meantime, I
sat back to observe the Xunvirian warships.

They were communicating, I noticed. Not only to each other, but also
with someplace past the asteroid belt. Locating its exact position
wasn't easy, I had to send a couple drones several thousand kilometers
away just to triangulate the origin of the transmissions, but it's not
like I had anything better to do while I waited for my army to come out
of the oven.

After some trial and error I managed to pinpoint the location to one of
Jupiter's moons, possibly Ganymede. The lack of doppler effect meant the
source was static, too. Some sort of orbital station? An outpost to
watch over the system? I would need to get closer to know for sure.

But that would have to wait. My army was ready, and it was time to lay a
trap.

I sent a couple thousand of my drones away, drifting slowly into space
and spreading in a rough sphere, somewhat over a hundred kilometers in
size. My soldiers were attached to the drones' outer hulls, grabbing the
metal handles I had installed on their surfaces. There were some
advantages to my assault army not needing to breathe.

I made sure to keep their distribution as random as possible, with small
clusters here and there rather than an even spread. I wanted it to look
like a natural formation, a field of small rocks and dust floating
around.

All right. I was ready. The trap was set, it was time to bait them.

With a sense of trepidation, I sent the signal. A loud, powerful radio
transmission. It felt like I was coming out into the open, in the middle
of some bad neighborhood, and shouting at the top of my lungs.

I could have sent pretty much anything, but I chose the same warning
transmission those three ships had relayed to me when they had found me
in Earth's orbit. It was a petty mind game, but I wanted to keep the
Xunvirians on their toes.

If they even *had* toes.

The response came back sooner than I had expected. Just nine minutes
after I had sent the transmission, I detected the telltale signs of a
squadron of ships converging towards my position.

That was fast. Did they have some kind of listening probes lying around
the asteroid belt? Some sort of faster than light communication system?

No time to focus on it now. The warships were already popping back into
normal space, right in the middle of my sphere of drones. I added it to
the mental list of technologies I'd need to reverse engineer once I had
my hands on a Xunvirian vessel.

I didn't give the enemy time to analyze the situation. The moment the
battleship at the center of their formation appeared, I activated the
drones and ordered them to move towards it.

It was strange, that they didn't react for a few long seconds. They just
waited, floating there as if they couldn't believe it. I guessed the
swiftness and severity of the attack had shocked them into inaction. It
couldn't be easy to realize you were suddenly surrounded by more than
two thousand enemy crafts.

Then, they started shooting. High energy laser beams emerged out of the
flanks of the four ships, tracking and burning down my drones. Two of
the ships released simultaneous salvoes of missiles, but they were
intercepted by a few of my machines, sacrificing themselves for the
survival of the swarm.

I ordered the assault robots to let go of their vehicles and fall
towards the battleship. They were still a good couple kilometers away,
but they just had to coast at their current direction and speed. In the
meantime, I set the drones that had transported them to swarm all around
the place, creating chaos in the ship's sensors and diverting attention
from the undefended wave of soldiers.

I smiled at the panicked enemy reaction that followed. From their point
of view, the two thousand crafts surrounding them had suddenly
multiplied by four. Their ships engaged their thrusters as if to leave,
but they stopped as soon as they realized how ineffective that would be.
They were surrounded, and no matter where they moved to, they would just
run into more of my machines.

So they redoubled their efforts at shooting down the components of my
swarm. Dozens of bright laser lines constantly appearing and
disappearing, trying to destroy my machines as fast as possible. My
soldiers, moving in a straight line towards their battleship were easier
to track, so the enemy fire focused on them. They were killed by the
hundreds.

But it didn't matter. I had thousands. They started landing all over the
battleship's surface, using their claw-like fingers to grasp to the
metallic hull. If the ship had a protective shield, it didn't make a
difference. I had bet on their shields only reacting to energy
discharges and fast moving projectiles, rather than the slower approach
my soldiers were following. It seemed I had been right.

At more than 400 meters long, the enemy battleship was an impressive
sight. A war machine covered in armor plates, missile batteries and
laser projectors. It had been vehicles such as this that had bombed
Earth's cities from the safety of orbit.

It wasn't, however, protected against boarding by an assault army. My
soldiers crawled all over the hull, finding weak points and unprotected
openings. They went through exhaust vents and blew open loading gates,
getting into the ventilation system, into the maintenance passageways...

Judging by the amount of casualties I was having, I supposed most other
sane species considered this tactic too crazy, too suicidal to be
useful. Just as I was thinking that, 170 of my soldiers instantly
vanished from my perception, as I had failed to intercept a missile
launched by one of the smaller defending ships.

Right. I had to do something about those other three. Some of the drones
in the swarm were carrying nuclear warheads, so that was an option. But
detonating them so close to the battleship I was assaulting would
jeopardize the whole affair.

If only I had a way to force them to break formation...

With a mental shrug, I unfurled my radiators and started venting the
heat that I had been keeping inside my body into space, the exposed
surfaces rapidly becoming incandescent.

The reaction was immediate. The moment they realized the 27 kilometers
long asteroid was, in fact, not an asteroid at all they turned to leave,
abandoning their bigger sister to its own fate.

I didn't move to stop them, but I used the cover of the swarm to
surreptitiously position a few of my nuclear carrying drones in the path
they would take. Since they were already surrounded by a host of small
crafts spiraling around, they were none the wiser.

Back in the battleship, the fight was fierce. I could see through my
soldiers' eyes that they had reached the main corridors -wide
passageways with walls heavily decorated in a multitude of hieroglyphs-
and were engaged in combat against the enemy troops.

It was the first time I saw *them* in the flesh. The creatures that had
killed humanity. They were large hefty bipeds, almost twice as big as my
own soldiers. Their heads were wide and squashed, with a complex
structure of bony-looking plates protecting their top. They had four
narrow eyes, two in front, two to the sides, and their mouths were
hidden behind some sort of small tentacles hanging from where a nose
would have been in a human face.

I had expected some sort of strong emotional response to my eventual
face off against the monsters. Strange, that I didn't feel anything.
Just some sort of detachment.

A stillness.

I simply ordered my army to open fire, to flank their positions, to
charge at them even as I analyzed the images, classifying both the
strengths and vulnerabilities in their anatomy. It didn't take long to
get the upper hand. The Xunvirians had been completely unprepared to
this kind of assault. They were wearing toga-like red and yellow
uniforms rather than any sort of body armor, and they lacked in
firepower, using only small energy handguns or ineffective melee
weapons.

Outside, I verified that the three smaller runaway ships were at a
sufficient range, and ordered the nuclear explosives to detonate. Two of
the vessels vanished in an instant, along with four hundred and
seventeen of my nearby drones -I hadn't retracted the swarm as to not
clue the enemy of what I was about to do.

The third vessel had survived, though. Its protective shield had encased
the warship in a tight bubble that reflected all the colors in the
rainbow. As I was looking, the ship returned fire at my main body,
focusing all its lasers in a single and devastating attack. The
overcharged beam hit the ceramic plates of my outer hull, vaporizing a
hole and burning its way through them and into the second of my armor
layers.

Two more nuclear detonations put an end to that.

In the battleship, the fight was also over, and already my soldiers were
identifying the parts that made up the main fusion reactor, the warp
engines, the different weapons and shield projectors... But even as they
did that, I was already recalling most of my drones and assault troops
back into my main body, leaving just an automated defense garrison and
some worker drones in the conquered vessel.

I knew I didn't have time to waste. I would drop by later to collect the
salvage, but right now I had to move fast. I had just kicked the wasps'
nest, so to speak, and had to make use of the surprise factor while it
lasted.

Engaging my main thrusters, I set course towards Ganymede.

</div>

<span id="chap3.xhtml"></span>

<div>

Chapter 3 {#chap3.xhtml#heading_id_2}
=========

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Â 

Daokat stared at his plate with a mix of fear and apprehension. The
small meat filled dumplings floated in a bright and dense orange soup,
as if daring him to take another bite.

He had made that mistake three minutes ago, and was still trying to
recover from the shivers, numb mouth and itchy throat. Spicy... to call
Xunvirian food spicy would be an understatement. No, rajan sauce was
spicy. Lenyish tree-melons were spicy. But this... this was a health
hazard passing as food.

He pushed the square plate a few inches away and took another sip from
his drink, bracing for the impact of its deep bitter taste. He cursed
himself again for listening to Nakstani's advice when ordering his food.
He was still trying to figure out whether his new boss' suggestion had
been an honest one, or if it had been a prank playing on his ignorance
of Xunvirian cuisine.

Knowing her, probably both.

Daokat leaned back in his chair and gazed at his surroundings. The Hall
of the Four Columns was one of the most luxurious rooms in Xunvir's
Empyrean Palace, with tall ceilings engraved in hieroglyphics of gold
and jade that told the history of the empire turned republic.

The ceiling was supported by the Columns, four massive pillars of glass
that shone with their own pulsating light, bathing the room in a green
glow.

And dwarfed by the columns, the guests dined, drank and mingled. The
elite of the Xunvir Republic: admirals and tribe leaders, politicians
and powerful businessmen. They talked in pairs and groups, walking
around tables and servants, joking loudly to each other.

Playing with the steel pincer that served as a food utensil, Daokat
wished once more he was anywhere but here. A few months ago, he had had
a promising career laid out in front of him as a high ranking consulate
delegate at one of the core worlds of the Galactic Federal Council.

But somehow, in a turn of events he hadn't even begun to really
understand, he had ended up in the deep ass-end of the Orion Arm.

Eating Xunvirian dumplings.

He looked back at the guests, and saw his own boss among them. Nakstani
was in the midst of it all, confidently talking to the Emperor himself.

Ambassador Nakstani of the Galactic Federal Council was an odd piece.
Like himself, she was a Sanksian, coming from one of the oldest worlds
in the Galactic Council. A lush and peaceful agrarian planet that lived
mostly out of tourism.

Sanksians were nimble beings of thin bodies, large eyes and smooth
silvery skins. Known for being polite and diligent. But where Daokat
himself was a good example of that stereotype, his boss was anything but
it.

Nakstani acted like she was a local herself, laughing with intensity,
slapping the shoulders of whoever she was talking to, drinking and
sampling every food... At first, Daokat had found the contrast between
her behavior and her delicate looks to be striking, but it seemed it
worked for the Xunvirians, and they treated her with respect.

The other reason, of course, was her role. As a representative of the
Council, Nakstani might not have had a fleet of her own like some of the
admirals in the room, but she had influence in spades. The kind of
influence that came from representing an organization that covered over
forty percent of the known Galaxy.

As Daokat watched, his boss bowed to the Emperor and walked back to
their table. She plopped down on the seat in front of him, and eyed the
discarded plate.

"Hey, kid. Aren't you going to eat that?" she asked, already reaching
for a pincer.

"No," Daokat answered. "In fact, I suspect the sauce might be laced with
some sort of hallucinogenic."

She tilted her head looking curiously at a dumpling, before stuffing it
into her mouth. "Hmm... yeah, I think it is."

Daokat looked at her and shook his head. "Really? How can you eat that?"

"Ah, it's not that bad. Besides, nobody is going to tell you their
secrets if you aren't willing to try their food first."

He nodded. "Secrets... right, I guess that's true."

She stopped chewing and stared at him for a few seconds with an
inquisitorial gaze. Then she sighed. "All right, spit it out."

"What?"

"Whatever it is that has you yellow-teethed. Look, I thought you wanted
this position. To be here. An Assistant Ambassador. But obviously
there's something you don't like, so spit it out already."

Daokat blinked at the brashness of the question. In his mind,
ambassadors were supposed to be tactful and discreet. He wondered
whether it'd be a good idea to answer truthfully, but there weren't many
ways in which he could be further punished. It wasn't like he could be
sent off to an even less pleasant destination than the Xunvir Republic.

"Yes," he admitted. "I did want the Assistant position. Just... not
*here*. I applied to Nayatan Prime, but it seems someone upstairs wanted
to punish me by sending me to this..."

Daokat stopped at the bewildered look his boss was giving him.

"You think you were punished?"

"Well... sure. Why other reason would they send me here, as far away
into the periphery as possible?"

Nakstani was repressing a laugh. "Oh... you're such a cursed fool...
They sent you here because I specifically *asked* for you!"

Daokat's eye membranes did a funny twitch.

"You did... what... why?"

She stuffed another dumpling into her mouth. "Because I read your
examination essay, the one where you talked about making a difference.
Because I thought you'd want to be someplace important."

"I was going someplace important. Like the Core Worlds, not here!"

"I see. Nayatan Prime?" she asked.

"Well, yes. Nayatan Prime is where High Governance is based out of. It's
where all the Grand Ministers are. All the action is there."

She snorted. "Bullshit."

Daokat was about to reply when she interrupted him, leaning forward and
speaking in a lower tone.

"No, listen to me now, Daokat. Nayatan Prime? It's bullshit. Yes, all
the bigwigs are there, all the celebrities. They get together, throw
some large party, some charity fundraiser or something to appear in the
network vids and get their ten minutes of fame, all the while you are
left to send the invites. You go there, you turn into a glorified paper
pusher."

He shook his head, raising his voice. "Nayatan Prime is where the Fifth
Accords were signed, for crying out loud!"

"Where they were signed, sure. But where do you think they were
*negotiated*?" She motioned at the Hall around them with the pincer in
her hand. "It was in rooms like this. This is the *frontier*, kid. This
is where the rubber meets the road, where the real action is. That next
volume in the history lessons? That next war that will shape the destiny
of entire worlds? It starts here, in this room. Right now."

She eyed a couple of high ranking Xunvirian officers as they passed by
their table. "Might have already started, in fact," she added.

The revelation had left Daokat paused, not knowing how to react. If what
Nakstani was saying was true, not only he hadn't been punished in the
first place, but he had been *handpicked* by her for an important
position. One that wouldn't take him in front of the cameras, maybe, but
important nevertheless.

He didn't have time to feel like an idiot, though. If what she said was
true, he had to get his head back in the game. The last sentence had
piqued his interest.

"Do you mean the reports were true? The Xunvirian Fleet *is*
mobilizing?"

She nodded, stealing a sip from his drink. "The Third Fleet left port
two weeks ago. The First and Fourth both leave in three days. Seems like
the Xunvir Republic is going to war."

"Shit... offensive or defensive?"

She tilted her head and smiled at him. "You tell me, kid."

A test. But Daokat knew what she meant, she had explained the day
before. There was a certain *feeling* to these meetings. An emotional
energy in the air, in the way people acted. In the way they talked and
moved. You just had to know how to read between lines.

He looked around discreetly. The Xunvirians appeared relaxed, joking and
drinking. He saw a group of tribe leaders burst into raucous laughter,
slapping each other's shoulders.

Except it looked a bit over the top. And as he stared more intently, he
started to notice the little details. The underlying patterns. The
Emperor was talking to everyone, but he never strayed far from his own
guards. The tribe leaders were joking, but their reactions seemed
forced, as if their attention was someplace else. The admirals were all
in their own little group, talking in hasty tones. Discussing war
strategies, maybe?

Nakstani was examining him. "So?"

"Defensive. They are spooked," Daokat said.

"Ah... I knew there was a reason I hired you after all. Go on."

"They are projecting an image of strength," he elaborated, "but they are
nervous at the same time. It's all a facade, they are worried about
something but don't want to look like they are weak."

"And what do you think could have caused that?"

Daokat thought for a minute. "Internal strife? A coup attempt, perhaps?"

Nakstani shook her head. "I don't think so. All factions are represented
here. Whatever it is, they all are in it together."

"So, an external enemy," he concluded.

She nodded. "If you ask me, I'd say someone has seen a bushcat lurking
around and they're all circling the plumps now."

"The what now?"

"The plumps? The grass-munchers?"

"The cows?" he ventured.

"The... yes, the *cows*... Seriously? Haven't you ever been to a long
grazing?"

"No," Daokat replied. "I was raised in Gorge City."

"Ah... a cursed urbanite. That explains a thing or two about you.
Anyways, yes. An external enemy. They have been attacked."

He nodded. The more he thought about it, the clearer it was. An external
menace was the only thing that could have united the different tribes
and factions that made up Xunvir's higher social layer. It would be a
good motivation to put their differences aside for the time being.

But still, there was something that didn't fit.

"So why not ask us for help?" Daokat said. "The Xunvir Republic is an
associated state to the Council. Per the accords we are obligated to
support them in a defensive war against an external aggressor."

Nakstani smiled. "That's the question, isn't it? What do you think?"

Daokat paused and reviewed what he knew about the Republic, its power
structure and internal issues, trying to look at the question from a new
angle.

"It's political. Asking for help now would make the ruling tribe seem
weak, and hurt their chances at keeping the Emperor position in the
elections next year."

"Hmm... you are learning. But no, that wouldn't explain why all the
other factions are keeping their mouths shut as well."

"Then why?" he asked. But before she could reply, he continued speaking
his thoughts. "I mean, if the message of strength is not directed at one
of the factions, then who else is in here that..."

He paused, as he considered who else was in the room.

Themselves.

That was it. Clear as day. A message of strength, of unity. Directed at
the Galactic Federal Council. At them two.

The Republic was going to war. The Galactic Council knew. The Republic
knew that they knew, and they were delivering their message.

*Keep your snouts out of our business.*

This entire dinner was a farce. A play. And they two were at the center
of it. He felt a shiver down his spine as he imagined the gaze of every
other dinner guest in the room staring down his back, scrutinizing his
every gesture.

And Nakstani's behavior... drinking, joking, talking to everyone... it
had been another message. A reply of her own.

*No.*

As he considered the implications, Nakstani leaned towards him and spoke
with a smile. "Ah, now you see it... why you should have eaten your
cursed dumplings."

Daokat nodded slowly, still frozen and with his hands laid flat on the
table. His heart was beating fast.

So, this was what the infamous *game* played like. The real stuff.
Threats and bluffs masquerading as jokes and spicy sauces.

Ironic, that he had wanted to be someplace important and now, when he
was right at the heart of a burgeoning conflict, the crucial signs had
all gone over his head.

At last, he rose his gaze to look back at his boss, who had an amused
expression in her face.

"They are hiding something," Daokat said. "They don't want us to
interfere because there's something they don't want us to know."

Nakstani's smile transformed into a predatory grin, one that somehow
didn't look out of place with her delicate features. "And doesn't that,"
she said, "make you *just* a little bit curious?"

She was right, of course. He was curious. The Xunvir Republic had been
attacked, but they were trying to hide it. Why? Because there must be
something, some critical piece of information, that they wanted to keep
secret. Something that could have tremendous consequences if divulged.

"We need to learn who is behind it," Daokat said. "Who is attacking
them."

"Agreed. Which is why you have a meeting in about ten minutes with...
ah..." she paused for a moment, and Daokat could see bright yellow lines
appear in her eyes as she connected her augmented irises, "one Corvette
Captain Avamir of the Buplan Tribe."

Daokat blinked. "You've got a mole?... Sorry, stupid question. Of course
you've got a mole."

"And you've got a meeting. Third level, eastern terrace. I suggest you
get going." Nakstani said as she laid back on her seat, drink in hand.
"Don't worry, I'll stay here and hold the fort."

"Right," he said, but he was already standing up, walking out of the
Hall. His legs felt stiff and his movements rigid. He concentrated on
keeping a regular, normal-looking pace, not too anxious or so slow it
would look deliberate. He tried avoiding the gazes of the other guests
without looking like he was shunning them.

It was harder than it seemed.

Â 

The terrace, a large expanse of marble overlooking the Palace's lush
gardens, was empty when Daokat arrived. He walked past the bronze
statues depicting long dead military heroes, each with a small placard
underneath telling their stories. Which tribe they belonged to, which
long forgotten battles they had fought.

Entire lives summed up in three sentences long blurbs.

He paused by the edge of the balcony, placing his hands on the
intricately decorated stone handrail. At night, the gardens surrounding
the palace were plunged in shadows, and it looked as if the building was
surrounded by pure blackness, like a small boat of stone floating in a
sea of nothingness.

And beyond the black expanse, he could see the myriad city lights of the
Xunvirian capital covering the horizon. The traffic crawling towards the
spaceport, the Twin Avenues, the spiraling towers that the powerful
Anacax tribe had built in the commercial district...

In a way it was fitting that the Palace representing the old imperial
age was separated from the more modern city, symbol of a nascent
interstellar economy. Ever since he arrived, Daokat had always been
aware of the sense of melancholic decadence impregnating everything
related to Xunvir's imperial past.

But there were high hopes for the Republic, back at the core worlds. It
was expected that the Xunvirians would be ready to apply for a
membership to the Galactic Council in about fifty years. Nakstani's and
Daokat's job was not just to act as representatives, but to gently steer
the policymakers in the right direction. To make sure the remaining
political reforms would take place before that happened.

He was optimistic, but sadly, the Republic hadn't completely recovered
from the shock of the military disaster that had lost them their empire,
and a sense of fatalism mixed with compensating self-importance still
lingered. He feared that a war, at this delicate moment, could
jeopardize everything.

His augmented irises warned him of the approaching figure even before
his own eyes could register it. A Xunvirian. He waited for the local to
approach, enabling the recording function of the irises. He was still
thinking of an opening line when the Xunvirian spoke in a thick guttural
accent.

"Ah, the deceptive lizard doesn't deem me worthy of her time, so she
sends her lackey, yes?"

Daokat tensed his jaw as the large creature approached. No matter how
much time he spent in this planet, there would always be a part of his
primordial brain sounding the alarms whenever a Xunvirian was close by.
Some sort of evolutive survival response.

But he wasn't a small animal running from a predator across the grass
fields of his homeworld. Galactic politics wasn't about who was bigger
or stronger, but about who had the most influence and leverage.

And that was him.

"Corvette Captain Avamir," Daokat said with a confident smile. "My name
is Daokat, I'm the Assistant Ambassador. Nakstani sends her apologies,
she couldn't excuse herself from the dinner party. But I can assure you
I speak in her behalf."

Avamir made a short puffing sound, the tentacles in front of his mouth
raising slightly. "Just ask what you want."

Daokat nodded. "Very well. We would like to know why the Xunvirian Fleet
is mobilizing. You are with the First, correct?"

"Yes. We are mobilizing in response to an attack."

That was it. Confirmation. Daokat had to repress a smile. "What
happened?" he asked.

The Xunvirian took a few seconds to reply. Daokat was about to repeat
the question when he started speaking again.

"Two months ago, we lost contact with a group of resource scanning ships
in one of our uninhabited external systems. Two days later, the squadron
sent in their search was lost too, followed by an attack against an
advanced frontier outpost."

He paused again, as if he was having difficulty getting the words out.

"We attempted several incursions to retake control over the system, all
of which were repelled. Four weeks ago, the entire Sixth fleet gathered
at the closest neighboring star in order to lead a massive
counterattack, but they were surprised by the enemy before they could
put the plan into motion. There were no survivors."

Daokat let out a breath as he processed the information. "You're telling
me you've already lost an entire fleet. An entire fleet and a star
system?"

Avamir huffed. "No. We have lost two fleets and three systems," he
corrected. "All of the systems were unpopulated. But judging by the
advance of the attackers, we expect them to reach the first of our
inhabited planets in less than a week. The remaining fleets are
mobilizing to protect the colony."

"Where? Which colony?"

"Yovit."

Daokat nodded, he had read about the planet before. With two million
settlers already, it was one of the most promising newly claimed worlds,
and the Republic was investing a good amount of resources in its
development.

"One more thing," he said. "Who is attacking you, and why?"

The Xunvirian bobbed his head, slow and deliberate. "Hmm... you have
heard of the pain proverb, yes?"

He had. "Yes. Pain breeds pain."

"Pain breeds pain. There is no escape from the ghosts of our own past.
We must fight the wars that our forefathers sow."

Daokat repressed a sigh. The last thing he wanted now was a lesson on
Xunvirian fatalism, on how every disgrace -ranging from diseases to
earthquakes- was somehow a fault of their ancestors.

"So, you mean..." he started.

"I am not a traitor," Avamir interrupted. "I told your master that. What
I do, I do it because it is righteous, yes?"

Daokat nodded.

"The Tribes are wrong to hide what might affect your Council. It's not
proper, to deny others the right of knowing their fate. But now that you
know, I'm not obliged anymore. Yes?"

The Xunvirian was already turning to leave.

"Wait! Who is attacking you?" asked Daokat. "Does this ghost have a
name?" .

"Yes," said Avamir without turning back. "The Terran."

He walked away with that, leaving Daokat alone again in the terrace. He
just stood there, processing the information. Finally, he opened a line
back to Nakstani and sent her the recording from his irises.

"Got that?" he asked her, sub-vocalizing the voice message.

He heard her response directly in his right ear. "Yes," she said. "Not
much. Never heard of these Terrans before. But at least now we know
where the fleets are going to."

"The colony world. Yovit. Any ideas of what we should do next?"

The line went silent for a few seconds, and he started walking back
towards the dinning hall. Eventually, his boss spoke again.

"Ah... Daokat," she said, "didn't you say you were from an agricultural
world?"

He frowned at the question. What was she playing at? They were both from
the same world, so of course she already knew... And just then, he
realized the hidden message.

Despite himself, Daokat had to smile.

"Sure I am," he said, playing along. "And ever since I've got here I've
been curious about Xunvirian agricultural techniques and farming
policies. Like, say... the ones they use in their colony worlds."

"Oh, really? Well, in that case we should make an official visit to one
of them. I've heard Yovit is lovely this time of year. I guess we could
leave tomorrow morning."

"That would be great, Nakstani! I can't wait to see how the Xunvirians
deal with their *plumps*"

</div>

<span id="chap4.xhtml"></span>

<div>

Chapter 4 {#chap4.xhtml#heading_id_2}
=========

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Â 

I entered the living room carrying the blanket on my right arm. It was a
woolen, hand-knitted patchwork of green, brown and blue colors. It hung
from my arm, weighting it down, skimming right over the wooden boarded
floor but without ever dragging on it.

I walked slowly, deliberately. There was a certain ritualistic approach
to my movements. There had to be.

The living room was lit in the orange glow coming through its single
window, bathed in the colors of a Sunday afternoon; the dying of the day
casting long shadows across the floor, across the table and couch.

I paused briefly right in front of the brown couch, then turned on my
feet and sit on it, placing the blanket on the seat next to me. Slowly,
I leaned sideways and rested my head on the armrest. After a beat, I
rose my legs and placed them on the couch too.

I lay there, my body sprawled across the three seats. Of course, the
piece of furniture wasn't as long as a bed, so I had to keep my knees
somewhat bent to fit in it. The posture created a bit of a strain in the
artificial muscular tissue that covered my legs, but it was supposed to
do that. It was supposed to be ever so slightly uncomfortable, but not
unpleasant enough that I would need to move and change posture.

With a precise motion I unfolded the blanket and covered my body with
it, from the legs and up to my chest. I doubted for a moment whether to
place my arms over or under the blanket, unsure as to which was the
*correct* way to go about it. The perfect resting posture. Eventually, I
left them uncovered.

The TV in front of the couch was turned on, broadcasting some old show I
haven't watched before, the images having that noisy grain that dated
them to sometime during the eighties.

Of course, it's not that I didn't *know* the name of the show. Or its
length, the actual date of airing of each of its 28 episodes -the one
now playing on TV was the sixth-, the name and date of birth of each of
its leading actors, or where I had found the tapes -a television archive
building in what had been the city of Atlanta, one that I had completely
digitized before leaving Earth.

But I tried to shy away from that knowledge, pretending I didn't know
all that. Pretending I had just turned on the TV and this was what
happened to be on it.

It wasn't working. Not fully. But it was as close as I dared going,
short of intentionally deleting that knowledge from my databanks.

Had I had eyelids, I would have them half-closed by now. But the body I
was controlling was just another one of my robotic soldiers, and I
hadn't designed them with this purpose in mind. I could have turned off
its two cameras, but it just wouldn't have felt the same. So I simply
adjusted their focus until the image I got from them was slightly
blurred.

It would have to do.

All of this was, of course, a crude mockery. A doomed attempt at
recapturing a memory. At feeling again that sense of warmth, of
calmness, that came with spending a Sunday afternoon lying on the sofa,
balancing in that narrow sweet spot between awareness and sleep.

Except things were somewhat *off*. The room felt different somehow,
though I couldn't quite put my finger on what was wrong. Was the ceiling
just a bit too tall, or too short? How many inches had the TV screen
had? How many feet had separated it from the couch?

If felt as if someone had ran through my stuff and put everything out of
place. I could tell things were wrong, but the memories weren't precise
enough, clear enough, as to know how to fix those same mistakes. I knew
the couch's fabric had had some sort of faded pattern, but I couldn't
for the life of me recall what it had looked like.

But the most glaring hole in the memory was the other presence that had
been there with me. I knew I hadn't been alone when resting like this,
drifting off to sleep. Someone had sat with me, on the same couch. I
recalled jokes. I recalled someone massaging my legs.

And yet I couldn't recall their face. Their looks. Who they had been. I
knew that person had been important, but not *why*.

This, the whole experience, was an exercise in frustration. In trying to
reach at something that was always moving away, that slipped through my
fingers the moment I thought I had a grasp on it. But it was important
that I kept trying.

It grated on me, that the most vital memories, the ones tying me back to
humanity, were also the most blurred ones. The most imprecise. The most
filled with gaps.

All the while I could construct a perfect replica of a Xunvirian laser
projector. Down to the identifying serial codes in each electronic
board.

I was constructing them at that very moment, in fact. Four hundred and
sixteen of them to join my other two thousand, three hundred
seventy-nine projectors I had already installed in drones and crafts
across my fleet.

I had been busy.

Even as I lay on the sofa, purposely not watching the TV, my awareness
kept working on several simultaneous levels. I could see the outside of
the living room -a plywood construction I had erected inside one of the
smaller storage areas in my main body. I could see the space surrounding
me, my extended panels bathed by the faint orange light of the twin
stars at the center of the Luhman system.

I was aware of the more than seven million machines that now composed my
swarm. They were distributed across three stellar systems under my
control, most of the drones tasked with different kinds of resource
extraction. Minerals, radioactive materials, gases, water... All the
work, the extraction, transportation, refining and construction of new
units controlled by the central servers in my main body, instantaneously
transmitting commands both through the EM-spectrum and via my new
quantum-entangled relays.

I had become a nation of a single mind.

Paradoxically, I had the Xunvir Republic to thank for my exponential
growth. It was the fusion plants of their own design that satisfied the
increasing energy appetite of the swarm. It was their communication
devices and optimized processing algorithms that allowed my brain to
coordinate so many machines. It was their warp engines that had enabled
me to expand beyond Earth's solar system.

And more importantly, it was their past actions, their attack on Earth,
that still fueled my determination.

They had been aggressive at first, sending their warship squadrons after
me. But they hadn't put a strong enough front, maybe not considering me
an important threat, so it hadn't been hard to come out ahead.

Then, they wised up, sending a strong and coordinated attack force to
face me. Had they done that at the beginning, they could have won. But
by the time they had reacted, I was already strong enough to stomp on
their forces.

After that, the Xunvirians had shifted to a defensive stance, no doubt
grouping around their nearest colony world. It would fall on me to start
the next confrontation.

All around me, my attack swarm gathered. More than four hundred thousand
offensive drones and assault soldiers. There were so many of them that
they looked like a moving fluid. The machines danced and flowed in tight
fractal formations, following complex patterns that weaved them together
without ever crashing into each other. They enveloped me like a living,
metallic blanket. Like some sort of twisted mirroring of what was
happening inside the plywood room.

There were so many of them that it was impossible for me to stuff them
into my main body anymore. Transportation, and not manufacturing, now
marked the limits of my attack strength. So I had resorted to building
support carrier ships.

At roughly two kilometers long each, the support ships featured a
miniaturized version of my own body design, with compartments for
carrying drones and soldiers, but also assembly factories, raw material
storage areas, shield projectors, power plants, laser weaponry and warp
drives.

The only thing missing was a mind of their own. Just like the drones
themselves, the support ships were under my direct control. An extension
of myself rather than separate entities.

That was another of the boundaries. Another line I wasn't willing to
cross. I wouldn't give self-awareness to what I intented to use as a
mere weapon of war. Like the drones, the support ships were disposable
too.

Which meant I couldn't just send my swarm to attack while I stayed put
behind, safe within my controlled territories. Even the quantum relays
weren't perfect. Their bandwidth was limited, and if I tried to directly
control the complex interwoven movements of hundreds of thousands of
drones through them, there would be several seconds of delay before my
orders reached their recipients. A delay that could cost me a battle.

No. I would need to be in the frontlines, directing the machines'
movements with precision. Risking my own body.

I guessed I could have built back up servers in my stellar systems,
though. Some sort of failsafe, a clone of my mind that would persist
even if my main body was destroyed.

It would be the smart thing to do. The optimal. But I didn't like it,
the idea of my consciousness being some fluid thing. The idea of losing
contact by mistake, and coming back to find out another *me* had taken
over.

Stupid? Perhaps. I knew I was putting obstacles in my own way,
deliberately falling short of my full potential. But I felt I needed
this, these anchors. To prevent me from going down the ever dangerous
slope.

Vengeance was important. But so was remaining human. Not losing myself.
Because as long as I did, as long as I could keep me from becoming
something else, then humanity itself would exist with me. There would
still be a faint glimmer of hope. As long as I was human, then we
wouldn't be extinct. So I couldn't afford to be consumed. To turn into a
mindless weapon of mass destruction.

That didn't mean I planned to die anytime soon, though. I had upgraded
my body, improved its armor with the new material techniques I had
developed, installed shield projectors based on Xunvirian designs... and
a warp drive that was currently charging for the imminent faster than
light trip.

I commanded the support ships to spool their warp drives too. Turned out
warp tunneling was dependent on mass. The bigger the object, the more
power it required. And having to move a 27 kilometers long object, the
warp drive in my main body had some crazy energy requirements. It took
my power plants several minutes to feed it before each activation.

I felt nervous as I secured the last of my drones in their compartments.
As I sent the orders that the factories and the other machines I was
leaving behind would follow in my absence. It was always like this
before a trip, but this time I knew it would be harder. I would be
jumping straight into a battlefield. Into an enemy trap.

Steeling myself, I activated the warp drives.

Right away, I went blind and deaf, losing contact with the rest of my
machines. I was now only aware of the drones within my own body. There
was no way to communicate to the external world while in warp.

It made me feel small. I was getting used to my expanded awareness, to
being *present* across different stellar systems. To the almost
omniscient view I had over my domains. This, going back to the
constraints of a single view, the physical limits of a single ship, felt
almost like being caged.

It made me feel anxious and vulnerable. The trip would only take about
twenty minutes, but to the rest of the universe more than three days
would have passed by the time I emerged back into normal space.

I was all too aware of how defenseless my other machines would be during
that time. They had their orders and were autonomous enough as to not
stop in their tracks, but I couldn't kid myself. Should the Xunvirians
choose to attack my solar systems now, my drones would be an easy prey
without myself to direct them.

It spoke volumes of why the Xunvirian fleets moved the way they did,
continuously making short warp jumps rather than long leaps. Like stones
skipping on a lake's surface, always popping in and out warp as to avoid
unpleasant surprises.

Sadly, it just wasn't a viable strategy for me. With my massive
vehicles, each FTL ticket was an expensive investment with a long setup.
Making too many of them would be prohibitive.

There just wasn't anything I could do other than wait, cross my fingers,
and hope that I wouldn't come out of warp to find my home razed and
burned, so to speak.

So I waited, going over possible attack plans and flying patterns.

Meanwhile, in the living room, I shifted my body to relieve the strain
in my legs.

Â 

Leaving warp was as sudden as entering it had been. One moment I was
blind, the next I could see. Millions of machines popping into my
awareness, petabytes of information being downloaded into my brain as
the pending logs finally reached me.

My mind started working, shifting through the enormous pile of data,
discarding irrelevant information and integrating the important bits
into my memory banks. To my conscious mind, it felt as if I had never
left. I had perfect recollection of everything that happened in my
absence, all the while I perfectly remembered being in warp, unable to
communicate.

It was yet another of the oddities of my strange new nature.

I went through my memories of the last three days. A couple factories
had stopped production due to running out of input materials. Seventeen
drones had been destroyed in a pipe collapse in the Centauri system.
More than four thousand others had landed in their respective home
hangars after encountering maintenance problems of some kind or other.

Nothing to worry about. I absentmindedly sent the commands to deal with
each of the situations, and focused my attention on my immediate
surroundings.

The colony world floated at eighty thousand kilometers away from me. A
sphere of green, brown and blue hues. Its bright, colorful tones
contrasted with the pure black of space, making it stand out like a
floating jewel.

It was beautiful.

It only served to make me angrier. That it was just like Earth had once
looked. That the Xunvirians got to enjoy this safe, beautiful world even
after having wrecked ours.

That crimes didn't have any repercussions.

That the universe, that life itself, kept going on in spite of our
tragedy. That we had been forgotten.

No. That wouldn't do.

In orbit, right between the planet and my own position, there was the
Xunvirian fleet. With thirteen battleships and their escorting vessels,
it was the largest combined fleet I had ever faced so far.

And they had, indeed, wised up. Their warships groups were arrayed in a
large arching formation, leaving tens of kilometers of empty space
between each other. Making sure, I noticed, that I wouldn't be able to
wrap them all in the thick of my swarm at the same time.

The enemy started to react, turning their flanks toward me, but they
hadn't open fire yet, holding formation. They showered me in messages.
Transmissions asking for a truce, for a negotiation.

I gave those the same treatment that humanity's own pleas had been
given.

I weighed my options. Their plan, I realized, was both simple and hard
to counter.

If I tried to attack them all at the same time, my machines would be too
dispersed to be effective. That meant I would need to work my way
through their ships instead, one after the other.

But focusing my strength in a single target would free the other enemies
to flank me and shoot at both me and my drones from the safety of
distance, using the greater range of their energy weapons.

Could I win? Yes... maybe. My own body was now protected by shields
specifically designed to withstand laser fire; and even though the
drones were vulnerable, at the end of the day I had the advantage of
numbers... of *very large* numbers. So probably I would have enough
drones as to work through their entire fleet ship by ship and come out
victorious.

But the losses would be astonishing. Most if not all my machines would
be destroyed in the process. My body would need repairs. I could win
but... would that be a worthwhile victory, or just a losing strategy?
One that could make me weaker in the long run, unable to survive at some
critical juncture in the future.

I could just ignore their warships and dive in for the kill. Send all my
swarm to ravage the world they were tasked with protecting. They
wouldn't be able to stop me.

But then, what? After I destroyed their world, I would still need to
face off their warships. Running away wasn't an option given how long my
warp drive took to charge. And I'd be put into a worse tactical
position, having already committed my army to a ground attack.

What other options were there? Sending a couple drones armed with
nuclear warheads towards each of their ships? No. It would be obvious,
and the machines would be shot down long before they could reach their
targets.

Using nuclear drones was a collaborative task. One craft delivered the
payload, while the rest provided cover, chaos, and decoys. But again,
trying to do that simultaneously against all the enemy ships would
disperse my swarm too thinly. It was self-defeating.

So... yes. The Xunvirian strategy was simple, but hard to counter.

We stood there for a few instants of stand-off. Facing each other. No
talking on my part, no radio communications.

Three seconds later I was joined by my eight support ships, popping out
into normal space by my side.

*Ah...*

</div>

<span id="chap5.xhtml"></span>

<div>

Chapter 5 {#chap5.xhtml#heading_id_2}
=========

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Â 

Daokat's legs hurt. It was a deep, constant pain that increased with
every movement, accompanied by a stiffness that slowly but surely had
spread to envelop his whole body over the last days.

In a way, he was surprised. He had always been taught that his species
had evolved to jog up and down the expansive grass hills of his
homeplanet, and that this was the reason Sanksians were so good at
walking in uneven terrain.

Well, apparently someone forgot to tell that to Daokat's body.

He had spent the last days a hostage of Yovit's Commissary of
Agriculture, the effusive -and surprisingly short- Xunvirian informing
him of everything there was to know and more about farming and planting
in a colony world.

They had visited irrigation projects, oxygenic tree plantations,
mountain farms, ground decalcification facilities, river fish farms,
redgrass fields, ball-tree farms, valley sweet-thorn cultivation
works... and all the other places whose names Daokat couldn't and didn't
care to remember.

If he didn't know better, he would have thought the Commissary suspected
the visit motives were a fabrication and was punishing him for it. But
no, either the Xunvirian was a great actor, or his intentions were
honest. And Daokat leaned towards the latter. There simply was a certain
mindset to people who willingly chose to move to a new world. A colony
in the periphery of the Republic, which itself was in the periphery of
the galaxy. To a world in development, without the comforts of
civilization.

Colonies attracted a certain kind of people. Honest, enthusiast and
hardworking. A mindset that was increasingly rare among the inhabitants
of the large metropolis where Daokat had spent most of his formative
years.

He walked up to his room's window and looked at Yovit's biggest -and to
his opinion, only- city. The town's location had been carefully chosen.
It was built in a natural bay that gave its settlers access to the
planet's single large ocean, but whose surrounding mountains protected
it from the worse of the seasonal storms that periodically battered the
continent.

It was a mix and match of prefabricated boxy white houses, warehouses
and workshops. Here and there, high rise constructions of bare concrete
and steel emerged from the sea of houses; such as the lodging he was
staying at -he refused to dignify the place by referring to it as a
*hotel*.

The wide avenues, decorated with the local lush trees, only made the
lack of actual motorized traffic even more apparent. While the main city
enjoyed far more activity than the other towns Daokat had been recently
visiting, it would be a far call to say it was *bustling*.

In some sense, Daokat felt as if he had somehow traveled back in time,
or was visiting some sort of pre-space faring civilization. The town,
the whole colony, had an outdated air to it. The avenues would suddenly
turn into dirt roads, forcing the ground vehicles to default to
dangerous manual piloting; or sometimes he would come across a small
house made entirely out of wood, of all things.

It made for an odd contrast with the scattered displays of high
technology he could glimpse at times. The recycling plants in particular
were state of the art even by Council standards. And the spaceport
-right across the street from the building he was at- featured an
endless showcase of modern Xunvirian starships entering and leaving the
planet's atmosphere.

He could even see the Embassy's ship, the white wedge-shaped vehicle
with gold accents and elegant designs etched in its surface that
Nakstani and him had used to get there. It was parked right at the edge
of the enormous bare expanse of asphalt that was Yovit's only spaceport.

He glanced across the bay towards the Colonial Directorate Building,
where his boss was at the moment.

Always one step ahead, Nakstani had excused herself out of the agrarian
excursion and decided to stay at the Directorate, "visiting" the local
governors and high ranking officers. The reasoning -she had explained to
him in private- was that should the planet be attacked, its defense
would be coordinated out of that building. Being there when that
happened, she had said, would give them first hand information on
Xunvir's enemies.

Daokat suspected her true reasons had more to do with aching legs and
long winded explanations on water reprocessing techniques.

He relaxed his eye membranes, letting them water his tired eyes, and
slowly sat down in the room's only chair -which *creaked* under his
weight, the cursed thing. Letting out a breath, he activated his
augmented irises and started going through the documents and the work he
had been neglecting for the past days.

He was reading a long winded explanation of the Republic's proposed
amendment to the export treaties, trying for the second time to unpack a
particularly annoying sentence, when a link to his boss opened.

"Hi, Daokat," she said. "Have any plans for this afternoon?"

Even when sub-vocalizing, Daokat could pick up on a terse tone. Or maybe
he was just imagining things.

"Yes, actually. I'm visiting an animal food reprocessing facility. Why
don't you join me? I'm sure you'll enjoy it," he replied, half jokingly.

"Ah... Maybe you should consider getting a sprained tendon or something?
Stay here this afternoon?"

He paused. No, he hadn't imagined anything. Something was going on.

"Wait... is it happening now?"

As the only response, he received a vid link. He opened it, a floating
screen only he could see appearing in mid-air.

It was a direct feed from her irises, showing him what she was seeing.
Nakstani was at some sort of control room, standing next to a large
screen along a group of Xunvirian colonial officers. The screen showed a
view of Yovit from orbit, the fleet of defensive military ships clearly
visible. And a purple icon, indicating...

"An incoming warp tunnel," Daokat muttered.

"Yes. Time to collapse is three hours. It could be a civilian vessel,
but..."

"No flight plan?" he ventured, reading the screen. All civilian ships
were supposed to relay their warp jump plans to the authorities ahead of
time.

"No."

They remained in silence for a few seconds.

"Should I join you there?" he said at last.

"No. You're one street away from the spaceport as it is. If we have to
evacuate, go to our ship and wait for me there."

He nodded, then muttered an affirmative when he realized she couldn't
see him.

"Keep this vid link opened, though," she added.

They went back to a tense silence, watching the countdown timer.
Meanwhile, Daokat composed a short message to the Commissary of
Agriculture excusing himself out of the afternoon's activities. A
sprained tendon.

Sometime later, he watched through Nakstani's feed as a group of
military officers entered the control room and started evicting all the
civilians. They tried to kick her out of the room too, but she very
calmly declared having direct authorization by the Emperor himself to
oversee any military operations.

Daokat snorted, but the Xunvirians appeared to buy the bluff and let her
stay. Or maybe they just had more urgent stuff to worry about.

In the screen, the timer was down to one hour.

Daokat opened the large cabinet in his room and took a small travel bag.
He placed in it the synthetic food bars and medical supplies that he
always traveled with in case of an emergency. Then, he added some extra
clothing items and the energy handgun all Council Embassy members were
issued with.

Just in case.

Half an hour. The Xunvirian fleet had adopted a strange and very sparse
formation in front of the warp tunnel's estimated exit point. Daokat
absentmindedly looked up at the sky from his window, but of course he
couldn't see anything. Just a blue sky with some puffy white clouds.

In the avenue outside, the sparse traffic flowed as usual. Daokat almost
expected sirens to have gone off by now, but it seemed the Xunvirians
were either confident they would come ahead, or they were still playing
their cards close to their chests. He wondered if his and Nakstani's
presence in the colony had anything to do with that.

It's not like there were many places for the locals to take refuge in,
though. Their best option would be running out of the city and into the
farmlands and mountains surrounding it. Evacuating the planet, as
always, was also out of the question. In the history of the Council,
many military leaders had proposed plans for evacuating worlds in case
of a military attack, but invariably they tended to be infeasible.

Planets with large populations were simply impossible to evacuate in
time, even when dedicating entire transport fleets to the task. And
Colonies like Yovit had most of their population dispersed across the
land, in places where transportation was spotty and there was no easy
access to a spaceport.

And even if there had been a way to evacuate the civilians, they'd be
put in orbit, right in the middle of the upcoming space battle. Right
where they could be easily captured or mistaken for combatant vessels.

No, the best recommendation in case of a planetary assault was to hunker
down and weather the worst of it. Civilians were usually respected, and
eventually wars ended, treaties were signed, and a solution was reached
for the local populations.

If the Terrans won here, they'd take over the colony and set their own
interim government that could last months. It would give Nakstani and
him the opportunity to talk formally with the newly discovered species,
while also overseeing the Xunvirian population wasn't mistreated.

But it wouldn't hurt to be prepared in case they had to hunker down
themselves, he thought eyeing the travel bag. Or if Nakstani decided it
would be better to leave the planet altogether and take their chances up
in orbit.

Soon after the counter had reached twenty minutes, the screen shifted
from the orbital view to a detailed zoomed-in visual of the projected
exit point.

Ten minutes. Even through the feed, Daokat could feel how tense Nakstani
was. No joking this time.

Five minutes. Daokat closed his travel bag and placed it in the center
of the room, sitting back in the chair. He glanced at the cabinet and
the expensive outfits he would be leaving behind, but quickly focused
back on the vid link.

One minute. Nakstani let out a breath. Daokat realized he was holding
one of his own.

Thirty seconds. This was it.

Ten. He watched as the countdown timer went through the last numbers.

Five. His eye membranes contracted almost on their own, as if to protect
the delicate eyeballs.

Three. Two. One.

Zero.

The instant seemed to stretch, lasting forever as if they were caught
inside some sort of time dilation effect. And for a single, hopeful
moment, Daokat was sure that the timer would update again to simply show
*plus One*, the Terrans having missed their appointment. And then time
would return to its normal speed, and he would relax, and Nakstani would
make some joke at the...

The image in the screen changed.

The first thought was one of incomprehension. Daokat had expected an
enemy fleet to pour out of warp, with battleships and escorting cruisers
and formations and all that. But that wasn't what had happened. No,
clearly there was *something* out there, but he couldn't make sense of
the image.

Then, the view zoomed out, putting the image in context. And he
understood.

It was impossible, of course. They would have known. The Galactic
Council would have known, were there a civilization in the Orion Arm
capable of building such a thing. The amount of resources involved, the
amount of time, of energy to put that monster into space...

And yet, there it was. A starship the size of a city. As in defiance to
the laws of physics and economics.

Many expletives crossed his mind, competing for attention. But somehow
he couldn't opt for *just* one of them. There wasn't a word to reflect
the astonishment, the complete impossibility of the scene. So he
remained silent.

Nakstani, of course, didn't have such problems.

"Just who these cursed mulch smoking bastards picked a fight with..."
she was muttering.

He was still trying to process the implications when the image changed
again, new ships joining the oversized monster. It now looked closer to
what Daokat had originally expected: a flagship with its escorting
vessels.

Except that each of the smaller vehicles were large enough as to qualify
as flagships on their own. Larger than any capital ship in any of the
fleets of the nations that formed the Galactic Council.

Odds were, he realized, that he was looking at the nine biggest
starships in the entire galaxy.

"Ah..." he said to no one.

And then, just as Daokat thought he couldn't be more surprised, the
screen started filling in hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands of
icons as new contacts appeared. Entire waves of smaller vehicles coming
out of the larger ships.

There were so many of them the sensors couldn't keep pace. The red icons
moved and danced around the massive vessels as if they were schools of
fish around a giant sea creature. Like a... a *swarm.* There wasn't any
better word to describe it.

He absentmindedly noticed he was back to a standing position, having
left the chair at some point during the last moments. But he paid it no
attention. In the screen, the Terrans were beginning their attack,
moving as a large group towards one of the defending battleships,
apparently chosen at random.

"Are the Xunvirians trying to contact them?" Daokat asked.

"Yes," his boss replied. "I got them to add our own message too. But no
response so far."

Daokat felt a strange anger at the developing situation. It almost
seemed *obscene*. To use such a display of force, to make such an
overwhelmingly powerful attack against such a small colony world. As if
the Terrans had no sense of proportion whatsoever.

The reasoning for the Xunvirian's weird formation became quickly
apparent as the rest of their warships moved towards the flanks of the
enemy, encircling the swarm and opening fire on it with all their energy
weapons at the same time, dozens of beams criss-crossing the intervening
empty space.

The screen struggled to reflect the amount of Terran casualties, the
hundreds of ships that they were losing under the hell of combined laser
fire the Xunvirians were unleashing upon them. It appeared the smaller
Terran crafts weren't protected by any kind of shields. But still, the
blob didn't seem to thin, stoically enduring the assault without ever
slowing its advance.

With a shiver, Daokat wondered if each of those small crafts was
carrying a pilot. If so, retaining such level of discipline under the
conditions they were being subjected to would speak volumes about the
Terran mindset. Would they use some sort of brainwashing, conditioned
training, drugs... were they some society built on honor and total
obedience? On a complete negation of the individual needs for the good
of the collective?

Somehow, he doubted they would be piloted. It was easier to refuse the
idea that any sentient being would allow being subjected to that. But
his memory reminded him that the swarm's target, the Xunvirian
battleship that had been singled out by the Terrans and had submitted
itself to its role as bait, was definitely piloted by a crew.

He muttered a curse. Daokat had always known there was something
strangely horrifying about war, some kind of rational madness to it. But
seeing it play out in front of him was quite a different beast than
learning about it from the safety of a philosophical essay.

He saw as the Terran crafts finally reached their objective and began to
slowly envelop the doomed battleship, and then things started happening
very fast.

A white flash in the screen marked the disappearance of the targeted
ship, along with a small chunk of the enemy swarm. A few instants later,
seven more flashes followed, each at the position of a close Xunvirian
vessel.

Nakstani pronounced the words *"Nuclear weapons."*

Daokat's mind raced to consider the diplomatic consequences of
detonating thermonuclear ordinance in the orbit of an inhabited green
world, in direct contravention of the most fundamental war treaties of
the Galactic Federal Council. But he abandoned that train of thought as
he saw the eight massive Terran *escorting* ships do something
impossible.

All of a sudden, they shot out of the main blob at an astonishing speed,
their acceleration so disproportionately high he wasn't sure how the
ships' structures could even handle such extreme forces. Let alone how
whatever crew was manning them hadn't just been instantly turned into
paste.

Each of them was aiming towards one of the main Xunvirian battleships.
The ones that had stood out of range of the swarm during the entire
battle.

The ones that housed the fleet admirals and tactical command centers.

The Terran ships had crossed most of the empty space separating them
from the battleships in just a couple of seconds. But they didn't stop.
They just kept accelerating, homing in on their targets.

One instant too late, Daokat realized they didn't *intend* to stop. The
Terrans were using their own ships as oversized battering rams. As
missiles.

In his mind, that cinched it. The Terrans were lunatics. A berserk
species that lacked any moral consideration towards the lives of even
their own crews.

The Xunvirian battleships had too been caught by surprise at the strange
maneuver. They fired their thrusters, desperately trying to get out of
the way, but they just couldn't match the maddening levels of
acceleration of their Terran counterparts.

A moment later, Daokat stared in disbelief as the information
representing the targeted vessels simply vanished from the screen.

Nakstani's terse voice interrupted the feed. "Daokat," she said, not
bothering to sub-vocalize. "We are evacuating. Go to the spaceport, get
into our ship and come pick me up here."

As if on cue, the rest of the Terran swarm *exploded*, small dots flying
everywhere, towards each and one of the remaining Xunvirian ships.

Even towards the planet itself, Daokat noted as he reached for his
travel bag and left the room, his heart beating fast.

The Xunvirian careful formation was in shambles. Amazingly, half of the
Terran giant escort ships had survived their respective impacts and were
coming in for a second pass. The defending fleet was disorganized, some
ships turning to respond to this new menace, others trying to contain
the rising tide of the swarm.

A series of white flashes followed, and more signal icons simply
disappeared.

Nakstani's vid link started freezing and losing visual coherence,
interferences continuously blocking the image and sound now.

*Right,* Daokat thought. All those nuclear explosions must have been
bathing the planet in a storm of electromagnetic pulses, and their
communicators just weren't designed to operate under such conditions.

Scampering down the stairs he closed the video feed to save bandwidth,
keeping the audio link still opened.

He looked back at the sky as soon as he exited the building. A
mesmerizing green and red aurora covered the whole horizon, north to
south. It was slowly spreading, dancing lazily far above the clouds.

Daokat ran towards the adjacent spaceport, dodging the locals who stood
motionless all over the street looking at the sky. He didn't fault them,
though. The sight was beautiful, in a horrifying kind of way.

He heard the sudden voice of his boss . "Daokat!" she all but screamed.
"We... got to... and... !"

"Repeat that!" he said. "The link is cutting!"

"-said... warn... You m-... ship!"

Daokat eyed again the now turning purple sky. *What had she said?
Something about the ship?*

He was now running past the large landing gear of the giant commercial
freighters parked all over the place. His legs burned with the
overexertion, each step sending pain through his whole body.

"Yes. I'm almost at the ship!" he screamed back into the communicator.

He could see his target. The Embassy ship. He rushed towards its
boarding ramp, from where one of the support staff was signaling him to
move faster. Nakstani had probably contacted them too, because the
vehicle's engines were already turned on, filling the air with their
piercing noise, raising a cloud of dust and wind that tugged at Daokat's
clothes and buffeted his exposed silvery skin.

"Nakstani," he said as he climbed the ramp and entered the vehicle, "we
should try contacting the Terrans using the ship's quantum relay. Maybe
we can still negotiate a truce, or stop them from shooting us down once
we get up there!"

"I don't... listen... You need to warn the Council... a Type-G
emerge-... It's an expo-...!"

Had she just said *Type-G emergency?*

Daokat moved towards the front of the ship, his steps muffled by the
carpeted floors. He had to use his hands to grasp at the door handles
and walls to keep his balance, as the spaceship was already starting its
ascent.

"It's a what?" he asked.

"An ex-... -ator!"

The link died.

He was still trying to decipher Nakstani's words when he reached the
ship's narrow cockpit. He all but climbed into the free seat next to the
only pilot, a young female Difeniard whose attention was currently
focused on manually operating the vehicle, her short brown coat of fur
puffed up. Somehow, Daokat doubted this take-off was following proper
procedures.

Nakstani had said to warn the Council.

A Type-G emergency.

*Type-G: an event with the potential to cause grave loss of life and
property across the entirety of the Galactic Federal Council and its
associated states.*

Type-Gs were an almost theoretical concept. Only one had ever been
formally declared in the history of the Galactic Council, when an
artificially engineered virus had spread across seven stellar systems,
menacing to kill hundreds of millions. Declaring one here seemed
excessive, even after witnessing the Terrans' actions.

So... what else had Nakstani seen?

Daokat engaged the ship's quantum relay from his console and started
inputting his identification code.

He glanced out of the cockpit's windows as he waited for the link to
establish. The ship was now skimming the roofs of the city's houses,
moving towards the monolith of the Directorate building. He saw local
Xunvirians in the streets turning to run towards nearby houses *-had the
colonial authorities sounded the alarm?*. A few stopped to look at the
passing vehicle, moving out of the way of the little tornado its engines
were creating.

The console pinged, waiting for him to talk.

"This is Assistant Ambassador Daokat," he said. "Code
three-seven-six-sphere, speaking on behalf of Ambassador Nakstani, code
nine-three-nine-sphere. I'm declaring a Type-G emergency originating at
the Xunvir Republic, Yovit system." He didn't miss the bewildered glance
the pilot gave him.

The console pinged again. The message had been parsed by the automatic
receiver. The link was redirecting.

Up above, there were dozens of white trail lines slowly criss-crossing
the sky.

There was something, something else Nakstani had saw. What had she tried
to say? An expo-, an expo-what?

And just then, he remembered something.

*Terran.*

That was what the Corvette Captain had said, back at the Empyrean
Palace. Terran. Not *Terrans.*

One. Singular.

*The* Terran.

A voice came out of the console. "This is Permanent Security Dispatch
speaking to Assistant Ambassador Daokat. Please confirm declaration of
Type-G emergency."

"Type-G emergency confirmed," he replied. Concise and to the point.
*Always be concise when speaking to Dispatch,* Nakstani had once told
him.

"Describe it."

"The Xunvir Republic has been attacked by an exponential replicator,
codenamed Terran. Replicator appears to be intelligent and of artificial
nature, and does not respond to communication attempts. Replicator is
already in control of three... -correction-, four stellar sys-..."

Light.

A deafening noise. A roaring shadow darkening it all. A fleeting moment
of surprise as left became down and right became up. Rolling. Crashing.
A searing flash of pain crossing his mind.

Darkness.

</div>

<span id="chap6.xhtml"></span>

<div>

Chapter 6 {#chap6.xhtml#heading_id_2}
=========

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Â 

Their empty eyes stared at me.

Four eyes per body. Narrow eyes. Two in front, two to the sides.

My assault soldiers advanced along desolated landscapes, passing by the
ruined skeletons of trees and collapsed buildings alike, their footsteps
making crunchy noises as they stepped on terrain made uneven by the
piles of rubble, debris and concrete scattered all over the ground.

I had squadrons marching through everyone of the planet's many small
towns. Searching, scanning, sending their data to my main body in orbit.
They were escorted from the air by a fleet of drones, flying through the
thick gray clouds of radioactive dust that covered the entire world's
atmosphere.

The Xunvirian bodies were not in underground refuges. In fact, I hadn't
found any of those so far. No. They were in the open, scattered, having
been flung around by the hurricane level winds created when I had
simultaneously detonated my three thousand and seventy-one thermonuclear
warheads all over the planet.

In parts of the main city, the destruction had been so severe that it
was hard to distinguish what had once been a building or a wide avenue.
I had to recur to the maps I had made previously from orbit to figure it
out and direct my army towards the most useful locations.

All things considered, though, the damage I had dealt to this planet was
still lower than the one the Xunvirians had unleashed against Earth.
Albeit irradiated, this planet still had oceans, for once.

Or maybe it was a matter of time. If I had started a nuclear winter,
maybe in a few years from now temperatures would come crashing down,
causing the ocean water to freeze and recede. It was an interesting
thought, one worth verifying, so I separated a few drones and set them
to stay as permanent orbiting satellites, monitoring this world's future
evolution.

A monument. I had once wanted to build a monument, to humanity.

It was important. I felt a deeply rooted urge to fight, to rebel against
the idea of time ticking by, of the last memories of our species being
left behind as the galaxy spun by. Of having been nothing, amounted to
nothing but some irrelevant blip on someone else's history books.

Of being forgotten.

This... this destruction, this ruin... it was retribution, yes, it was
vengeance. But it was so much more.

It was also remembrance.

It was our cry of pain, defiance and fury. A cry so high and strong that
cities crumbled and worlds died under it. A shout that would linger in
the air for centuries, even longer.

A shout that they couldn't help but listen to. That nobody could ever
pretend not to have heard.

Yes. They would fear me for this. They would hate me, maybe even manage
to kill me for it.

But they wouldn't ever *forget* it.

This, right here, it was a monument.

Here and there, some survivors would try to fight my robotic soldiers.
Maybe a lone Xunvirian making a suicidal assault, maybe a group of them
carrying out a better planned attack from the distance. They would shoot
at the machines using energy handguns, or throw homemade explosives at
them; and they would manage to disable or destroy a few.

But invariably, they would lose. They would be overwhelmed by the
assault of the nearby robots, surprised that even an apparently downed
soldier could still shoot back at them. Or they would be flanked by a
second squad, one they couldn't have seen through the dusty fog that
covered everything and limited visibility to a few yards, but whose
approach I had no problem coordinating.

On some rare occasions, one of my drones equipped with energy weapons
would be flying nearby, and I would have it take care of the offenders.
They would go down as if struck by an angry god, a bolt of lighting
coming out of the cloudy skies among a thunderous noise. I preferred it
that way. It felt more efficient. More optimal.

I wasn't exactly sure how to feel about all this... this destruction. I
had almost expected to be contented after I had brought some level of
payback to the Xunvirians. Not happy, exactly, but satisfied.

Except I didn't feel like that. Not disappointed either, nor regretful.
Just that detachment, that emotional indifference as I systematically
erased the remaining menaces. As if I was crossing off the items in my
task list, just something that *had* to be done, me being the
appropriate -the only- person available for the job.

It was that stillness that annoyed me, that frustrated me to no end. Had
I felt gleeful or regretful, it would have meant I was still human at
some important level. But this, this lack of emotion I didn't know how
to take it. Was it a normal, expected human response? Or was it a sign
of my descent? Of my becoming something else.

All in all my casualties were low. Even when taking into account those
robots that had fallen prey to the dangerous environment, with its
shifting piles of rubble, sudden gas explosions and hidden pit holes.

When they weren't fighting, my soldiers shuffled through the remains
looking for useful materials, artifacts, and working technology. This
was a rare opportunity for me. Over the last weeks I had learnt much
about the species I was fighting by examining the ships and facilities I
had conquered. I had used that knowledge to come up with counters to
their attacks and to develop new, more resistant armor, better
propulsion and weapons...

But in a sense, my knowledge had still been limited. All I had ever had
access to was their military ships and resource extraction outposts: a
very narrow slice of a society.

Right here, now, I was learning about the Xunvirians as a community. Not
only going through their barracks and ships, but also through their
homes, markets, farms, factories, administrative buildings...

This painted a much richer picture of the enemy I was fighting, and my
processing units raced to incorporate each piece of new information, to
give it sense, contextualize and categorize it, and look for ways in
which it could be put to use.

I discovered that their society was internally segregated, different
buildings and homes sporting banners and identifying symbols of varying
colors. I wasn't sure what that division represented, but maybe I would
be able to exploit it in the future.

The spaceport and its large cargo starships told a story of logistics,
of interstellar supply runs and resource distribution. A story that
already had me shuffling objectives in my mind, reprioritizing possible
targets to achieve the best strategy, the deepest impact in the Xunvir
Republic's trade and military supply chains.

It was near the spaceport where I found it. A relatively small
spaceship, lodged between two buildings as if it had fallen down from
the sky. Its entire rear part was missing, the internal mechanisms,
pipes and corridors all exposed to the dusty wind. But that wasn't what
piqued my curiosity.

No, what piqued my curiosity was that it didn't look Xunvirian.

As a mass producer myself, I had begun to show some appreciation towards
the Xunvirian's manufacturing techniques. Their spaceships appeared to
be constructed by joining together a series of repeating smaller
prefabricated modules, many of which were the same across all their
different types of spacecrafts that made up their fleet. It was clever,
bulk production of those modules would make costs much cheaper, and it
probably allowed for easier orbital assembly of new ships.

It was also the reason Xunvirian space vehicles looked like an
amalgamation of straight edges and odd angles, or the reason they had
been so easy for my soldiers to board, many modules featuring more
openings and vents that strictly necessary in a warship, but that I
guessed would come useful in other types of ship configurations.

But the downed craft in front of my soldiers, it didn't look anything
like that. This one had been purposely built as a whole. Its aerodynamic
shape had been designed to look good, to be elegant and stylized, rather
than easy to build.

With the help of a drone, I had three of my soldiers climb into the
vehicle through its gaping hole. They advanced along the dark corridors,
using the infrared cameras to see in the darkness. The ship had rolled
over, so they were walking on what I assumed was the corridor's ceiling.
I maneuvered them slowly and with caution, making sure they wouldn't
step on any ventilation grills or exposed pipes and wires.

The corridors' walls, I noticed, also lacked the perennial
hieroglyphical motifs that I had learnt to associate to Xunvirian
decoration. No, these ones were surprisingly minimalistic, with nothing
but some very simple line designs etched here and there. It reaffirmed
my first impression that this ship wasn't local.

I was already cataloging the most interesting pieces of technology to
recover from the fallen ship. Sadly, the thrusters, warp drive, and
shield projector were all missing; I assumed I would find them wherever
the rear end of the vehicle had ended up, if it even existed anymore.
But there were still many other devices I wanted to look into, such as
the intricate quantum relay communicator, which appeared to be of a more
advanced design than the ones I was currently using. I had two of the
soldiers start to disassemble it while the other kept exploring the
craft, moving towards the front.

That was when I found the two creatures, huddled in what I assumed was
the ship's cockpit.

One reminded me of a short-snouted fox. Covered in brown fur and with
large pointy ears, although without any tail that I could see. It was
sitting in the corner further away from my soldier, hunched over with
pain. It looked like it was gravely hurt, its clothes covered in blood,
yet it was conscious.

The other I immediately classified as a male. An humanoid of smooth
silvery skin and graceful lines. He stood right between my soldier and
the other hurt alien, aiming an energy handgun at the robot's head. He
didn't look like he had ever been in a firefight, though, his aim
wavering and his body twitchy. But that could also be a result of his
injuries. His face sported a red gash, and his left arm hung useless,
covered in blood.

I had my soldier stop, and considered my options while the silver
creature pronounced words in a language I didn't understand. I could
order the robot to attack, of course. The alien would shoot at its head,
but that wouldn't incapacitate the machine, only destroy its cameras.
The radio transmitter and control unit were both in the chest area, so
even when blind I could still get it to charge at the creatures and use
its arms to tear them apart. This was something many Xunvirian troops
had learnt the hard way.

I had the other two robots in the ship to stop their salvaging and move
towards the cockpit. I could just have them enter guns blazing. The
alien might be able to down one of the soldiers if he was fast, but that
would be it.

Or maybe I could use a drone, order one of the flying machines to shoot
or crash into the downed ship. It would destroy the whole cockpit
section, erase the problem. A bit too excessive, perhaps, and it risked
damaging the components I wanted to retrieve.

But there was something more, I noted. I didn't *want* to kill them. Oh,
I wanted them to be *gone*, I wanted them to have died in the crash,
maybe. It was the idea of shooting them that irked me.

Deep down, I had always known that going down this path, that engaging
in this revenge, risked turning me into something else. That if the
stars were the place where monsters lived, it would be so easy to become
one of them, now that I myself was living in that same endless void.

And looking at the ruined planet, perhaps I had already crossed that
line.

But there had been a reason for that. I hadn't started this war, the
Xunvirians had. I was merely taking it to their turf. Bringing them the
same level of destruction, the same level of pain they had previously
unleashed upon us. On humanity. It felt righteous, like I was working
towards some sort of balance, some sort of state of equilibrium, the
same way the laws of physics did. Action and reaction.

This, though? Shooting -... no, executing- these aliens I knew nothing
about would feel awfully close to *starting* a new conflict. A new war.
I would be the aggressor here, even if I suspected that they were
collaborating with the Xunvirians, giving them their support and
technology.

Should I treat them as the enemies they probably were, or give peace a
chance?

I could capture them, instead. Wasn't that what many armies had done to
suspected spies in the past? I would need to build a suitable habitat
for them, of course. Maybe a custom transport ship to house the
creatures. But that would be easy. I would then be able to interrogate
them, use their knowledge in my favor.

But again, that felt awfully close to an act of aggression. A lesser
one, true, but still unwarranted if they happened to be innocent and
just be in the wrong place, at the wrong time.

Besides, something about taking prisoners felt wrong. I didn't really
*need* them. I could retrieve any information I wanted about their
technology from the devices I had found and the ship itself. In fact, I
guessed interrogating them on engineering specifics would be an arduous,
useless task that wouldn't give me any new information that I couldn't
gather through reverse engineering. And I just didn't care about their
alien politics and intrigues.

No, capturing them would only be a delaying tactic. It didn't solve the
fundamental decision I had to make. Whether to consider them enemies, or
not. If they were enemies, then I would kill them. If they weren't, then
the right action was to let them go.

I almost wished the silvery creature would open fire, resolving my inner
conflict, declaring openly his secret allegiance. *Then* I would be
justified. *Then* I would be perfectly fine with my machines butchering
them.

But of course, he didn't. He just stood there, spewing words, words,
words. Alien words in languages I didn't understand, like some sort of
auditory mirroring of the radio messages the Xunvirian ships often
bathed me with.

Annoying.

The thing was, I hadn't given that much thought at what would happen
*after*. After the war ended. After the Xunvirians were done with. After
my main purpose had been achieved, one way or the other.

Somehow, a part of me suspected that there wouldn't be any *after*. That
achieving that objective, getting to that end goal might end up
requiring a complete sacrifice.

But what if I was wrong? What if there was a light at the end of the
tunnel, if somehow I could come out of this trail having reached some
sort of balance, of inner peace... then what? Maybe I could try my best
at restoring humanity. I hadn't really thought about that.

But if that was the case then I would have to live, somehow, in this
galaxy. With these other species. Unless I wanted to start a war against
the entire universe.

They would see me as an aberration, no doubt. A freakish mechanical
horror. And I would always look at them with suspicion, knowing they had
tacitly supported the ones who killed humanity. That they had enabled
our destruction, even if it had been just through their passivity.

But wasn't that human, too? Giving them the benefit of the doubt? Trying
to find some common ground?

I didn't know. Truth was, I wanted to hurt them, I wanted them to feel
their share of pain. And yet so far, I had no actual *reason* to justify
that, other than my own suspicions.

In the end, I guessed I had no choice. If I truly believed in justice
above all, if I truly believed that my own cause was right, then I had
to consider them innocent. Until proven guilty.

An olive branch, then.

Slowly, I had my soldiers drop their weapons to the floor. It was
symbolic, of course. A mere non verbal message. If the alien decided to
attack, I wouldn't really need the guns to put him down.

The creature's eyes did a weird sort of blink, his surprise evident even
to me. But he seemed to pick up on my intent, and hesitantly placed his
own handgun down.

I ordered my left-most soldier to enter the cockpit and approach the
fallen fox-thing, its movements slow and deliberate, each motion
telegraphed so as to not scare the aliens. The silvery one eyed the
machine warily, but didn't try to stop it.

I had the robot offer a hand to the hurt creature, which looked
surprised from the hand to the machine's faceplate and back to the hand.
It asked something to its partner, which seemed to reply in the
affirmative. Then, the creature grasped my hand.

Strange, to feel that sort of contact again, one that I had almost
forgotten about, even if it was though the very limited tactile sensors
of my assault robot's hands.

I helped it stand up straight. The creature let out a groan, and the
silvery alien started moving towards the gun. For an instant, it looked
like this tentative truce we had managed to establish was going to come
crashing down. But then, the brown alien said something and its partner
visibly relaxed.

My robot started walking towards the cockpit's exit, half-carrying the
hobbling creature along the way. The other alien eyed the gun again in
indecision, but then followed them leaving it behind. I had my two other
soldiers take the group's rear.

Getting the pair of aliens out of the crashed ship was a complex
operation that took the longest part of an hour and involved a chain of
assault soldiers working in conjunction, along with the support of three
of my flying drones. At points, I was worried the hurt creature wouldn't
make it, its fur covered in bright blood. I had a couple of robot squads
go through the local area, looking for whatever passed as first aid
supplies for the Xunvirians.

When I finally got them out of the wreckage and into the open, the
silvery alien looked shocked. He stared around at the devastated
landscape in silence, then pushed my closest soldier in the chest while
screaming some unknown word over and over again.

My soldier didn't budge. I wanted to say something, even though I wasn't
sure of what, but I realized I hadn't designed my assault army with the
capacity for speech in mind. I had never intended to negotiate with the
Xunvir Republic after all. So the machines just stared at him in
silence. Frozen. Eventually, he shook his head in a very human looking
sign of defeat, and walked up to his partner.

I had a drone land next to them and drop the medical supplies I had
managed to scavenge. This was as far as I could go. I wasn't a medic,
didn't know anything about the aliens' physiology or how to heal their
wounds. Surprisingly, the silvery one looked as confused as I was. But
the fox-thing seemed more knowledgeable in first aid and started giving
out instructions to its partner, who set out to work, cleaning the
wounds, applying some sort of gels on them, and wrapping them in
bandages.

Two of my soldiers watched the procedure with interest, relaying the
images to me so that I could file them in my memory databanks and go
through them later, if I ever was put in the position to perform first
aid on a fox-looking alien again.

Meanwhile, I had my troops clear out and secure a corridor from the
crashed ship all the way to the remains of the spaceport, killing the
small group of Xunvirians that were trying to set an ambush out of a
nearby building.

I knew there was no point in saving the creatures just to abandon them
to their own luck in this irradiated, ruined world. They wouldn't
survive for long, not in their condition.

No, if this was my attempt at not fighting the other civilizations, at
shooting for some sort of coexistence, it would make no sense unless the
rescued creatures could escape, survive long enough to get back to their
respective homes and deliver that message for me.

I had started working on that particular issue even before I had managed
to extract them out their downed craft. If they were to leave the
planet, they would need a vehicle.

I knew my own drones weren't up to the task. Even though many had
carrying compartments of their own where they could transport materials,
salvaged artifacts, assault soldiers, or nuclear warheads when the
occasion required it, they just didn't have any sort of life support
system on board.

I could always manufacture new types of drones. A new design able to
transport living beings, and I might end up constructing a few of them
in the future, just in case this situation presented itself again.

But for the time being, I had figured out a faster way.

Most -if not all- the Xunvirian ships parked at the spaceport had been
damaged, yes. But they hadn't all been damaged in the same places. And
the modules they were built from had originally been designed to be
interchangeable.

So I had set out to assemble my very own Xunvirian vessel out of the
surviving pieces from three other different ships. It wasn't as easy as
it sounded, though. Even the surviving modules had damages of their own,
with bent pipes and burnt surfaces all over them.

I was using a relatively small patrol ship as the main chassis, since it
had survived relatively intact and only needed some of its main
components replaced. A fleet of drones was working on it, welding beams
together, rebuilding its life support system, and attaching a new power
plant and engine block that I had extracted from nearby freight
transport crafts.

Too much work for saving these two creatures, who hadn't done anything
for me, who were probably friends with my enemy? Perhaps.

But that olive branch I had wanted to offer? It had to be delivered.

When the medical treatment was over, I set them to move. It took some
gentle pushing for them to get the message, and one of my robots had to
carry the hurt one bridal style. The silvery alien startled at first
when that happened, but after a few words from his companion he allowed
it, even though he kept stealing glances at the carrying unit from time
to time.

The procession advanced slowly. It had to. While my assault troops had
the infrared channel of their cameras, and access to the detailed
terrain scans my scanning flying drones had created with their radar
sensors, the aliens relied entirely on their own eyes and were victims
to the limited visibility. I also didn't want to risk the group falling
into some unseen pit, so I had them follow a winding path that made wide
detours around some of the most unstable areas in the ruined city.

It took them almost three hours to reach the spaceport, and by that time
the impromptu spaceship I had assembled was ready to fly. Or so I hoped.
There was always the risk it would just explode on ignition, with these
things. But I doubted it.

When the creatures saw the contraption for the first time, they stood
frozen, exchanging words in their own language.

What? Did that mean they didn't like it? True, it wasn't my greatest
design, but I was proud of what I had managed to build in such a short
notice.

The male turned to look at me, at one of the soldiers. He said something
and waited, maybe expecting some kind of response.

I had the machine point at them, the spaceship, and the sky in quick
succession. He said a word, and his head bobbed slightly. Was that a
nod? Something else entirely?

The robot repeated the sequence of hand signs. Them. Ship. Sky. Them.
Ship. sky.

This time the alien didn't say anything. He just helped the injured
creature get into the ship. After a few minutes of waiting, the
vehicle's engines started and the craft began moving.

Well. It hadn't exploded, at least.

I watched the vehicle from a safe distance with my drones. It didn't
leave the planet straight away, as I had anticipated. Instead it flew
over the ruined city, making lazy circles around a particular set of
ruins, as if searching for something.

Curious, I consulted the map I had made from orbit. It was the place
where one of the city's largest buildings had stood. Some sort of
administrative facility, I guessed.

Were they looking for some artifact? Some critical weapon to use against
me that they had kept in there?

I didn't know, but whatever it was, I didn't think it would be a good
move to let them have it. I thought I had been generous enough so far.

I sent a couple of my drones and had them fly in formation, one to each
side of their ship, forcing them to stay in course if they didn't want
to crash into one of them. The aliens seemed to get the message and
abandoned their search, accelerating to leave the planet.

For a fleeting moment, I considered shooting them down. It would be
easy... just have one of the drones' vector thrusters align fifteen
degrees off-course. The drone would crash into the ship's engine
section, probably disintegrating the craft right away from the impact.
Or, if it survived somehow, then they both would die when their vehicle
crashed into the ground a couple of minutes later.

So easy. It would only require a thought.

All this time I had been helping them, I had been working within the
safety of knowing that my decision was reversible. That should I change
my mind, I would have no problem killing them at any moment I chose.

Up until this moment. This was the point of no return. If I left them
leave now, I wouldn't have anyway to retract that decision. I would be
committing to it, to that vague and dangerous idea of coexistence.

I didn't do anything, and watched with ten thousand eyes as their ship
engaged its warp drive and slipped out of normal space. Out of my reach.

An olive branch.

I wasn't a monster. Not yet. Maybe.

In the planet below, the Xunvirian's empty eyes withheld their own
judgment on that.

With a mental shrug, I started the preparations for my next move. I
recalled some of the machines, left others on the ground with updated
orders. Started spooling my own warp drive, my mind already considering
how to approach the next battle, what reinforcements I needed to
manufacture...

Which system I would attack next.

</div>

<span id="chap7.xhtml"></span>

<div>

Chapter 7 {#chap7.xhtml#heading_id_2}
=========

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Â 

Time in warp was, Daokat thought, a time for reflection. A time spent in
transition, in that ephemeral threshold between the different worlds,
the different cultures, places and moments that defined his life.

He was now sitting in a small, cold room that he guessed would normally
serve as both a canteen and some sort of common area. The austere steel
tables and chairs meant to fold into the walls, clearing an empty space
in which to meet and play whatever games Xunvirian ship crews played to
pass time when in space.

He almost wished there was a window in the room. Nothing fancy, just a
small porthole from which to see the great beyond. But he knew there
wasn't really anything out there to see when in warp. Just a dark,
endless expanse, not even the star lights reaching the ship inside its
little bubble of distorted space.

Time in warp was not, by any means, a time Daokat would call
*important*. It wasn't decisive or memorable on its own. Time in warp
wasn't when things *happened*. No, it was that short vacation, those few
minutes or hours in which being disconnected, inaccessible, was not only
justified but expected. In which he could be alone with his thoughts,
taking a respite from the trials and tribulations the rest of the
universe went through.

But though Daokat wouldn't call this time *important*, he still thought
of it as *necessary*. This, he knew, was the time that existed in
between a chapter had ended and the next hadn't quite yet begun. The
time when to take stock of your life so far, let go of regrets, learn
from mistakes, and get ready for that inevitable next episode. That
slightly changed universe that would be waiting for him whenever he
returned to normal space.

And Daokat had a lot to take stock of.

Last time he had had that much to think about, to reflect upon, was when
he had left his home world of Sanksia to report to his new post at the
very edge of the galaxy, under the orders of one Ambassador Nakstani. He
had been enraged, spending most of his travel time secluded in his
cabin, feeling either resentful at the Council, or sorry at himself and
his doomed career.

Fitting, that now it was that very same chapter the one coming to an
end. His time in Xunvir, his time learning about the Republic's culture
and customs, touring their major worlds, living in the capital and
socializing with the elites that visited the Empyrean Palace.

His time with Nakstani.

They had searched for her, of course. They had flown over the ruins of
the Directorate building she had been in when the city was devastated.
Daokat had tried to contact through her communicator, hoping that
somehow she would have survived the destruction like he himself had.
That she might have had time to take refuge somewhere safe before the
nuclear devices had gone off.

Of course, he had known all along it would be a fruitless task. But they
had persevered, clinging to that one hope, that one in a million chance,
up until the Terran had not so subtly forced them to abandon the search.

And so it was time to confront the truth: Nakstani was gone.

Which meant Daokat was now left to face this changed universe on his
own. This galaxy that was spiraling fast into the unknown, into a
conflict of unforeseeable proportions.

The destruction of the colony had been so fast and thorough that it was
difficult to comprehend. The first time he had seen the ruined landscape
from up above, as they were leaving the planet in the ship the Terran
had provided them with, his mind had gone back to what he had learnt
during the previous days with the Commissary of Agriculture.

He had started wondering about the cost of rebuilding those plantations.
What techniques would the Xunvirians follow to clean the soil and get it
rid of radiation, or how they would go about reprocessing the
atmosphere, clearing the dust the continent-wide fires were raising and
turning it back into a safe, breathable composition.

And the more he thought about it, the more he went back to his recently
acquired knowledge on colonial agricultural practices, the more he
realized how hopeless that task would be.

No, the damage was just too extensive, the wounds to deep to be healed.
It wouldn't be worth it, from an economical standpoint. Not even to a
healthy Republic, let alone one embroiled in a total war. It would be
cheaper to start over someplace new than to try and bring the dead world
back to life.

To all effects, the colony of Yovit was dead. The planet would be
abandoned, having lost its habitability ranking in a matter of minutes.

He sighed, reaching for one more small salted cookie-like thing out of
the box he had found in one of the room's many cabinets. He didn't feel
like eating, but Telzhira -the pilot- had suggested he should regain
some of his lost strength.

The intensity of the attack, the sheer scale of it, how out of
proportion it had been... it was puzzling. As if the Terran had not only
wanted to defeat the Xunvirians, but to utterly crush them. To tear down
everything they had built, to ruin their future and meticulously
extinguish their hopes.

If the Xunvirians had been attacked by a civilization of sentient
beings, it would speak of a burning hatred, Daokat thought. But trying
to figure out the Terran's motivations was... difficult. It could indeed
be anger, or it could as easily be just the results of a misfiring
algorithm. A rogue artificial intelligence bent on emotionless cleansing
and destruction just because of a mishap in its programming.

And wasn't that exactly why the development of self-sustaining
artificial minds was forbidden by the Council, he thought.

At first, when Daokat had woken up alive in the Embassy's ship cockpit,
he had hated the thing. Hated the senseless death it was unleashing upon
the Xunvirians, and cursed whatever civilization had created such
monstrosity and unleashed it upon the cosmos. For a second there, he had
hoped that whatever species had built the Terran, they had been the
first victims of their own cruel creation.

And just then, the cursed thing had gone and saved his and the pilot's
lives, going so far as to provide them with medicine, first-aid kits,
and a working spaceship in which to escape the doomed planet.

So... what had been all that about, then? Was the Terran sentient, after
all? Had it taken pity on them and allowed them to live?

Or maybe it was just a fluke of luck. Perhaps the presence of other
species had triggered some edge condition in its programming, compelling
the machine to help them. In that case, the Terran letting them go would
be as emotionless as it butchering the Xunvirians. Just a computer doing
its mindless work.

But Daokat hoped that it was the former. That those actions spoke of
some level of compassion, of regret, buried within. Of some kind of
sentience existing inside the machine, faint as it was. Because that
would mean there was still room to understanding, to communication,
to...

"Daokat," the voice of Telzhira coming out of the room's speaker brought
him back to the present. "We have just left warp for our first scheduled
stop, and I've established a link with the Council. They want to speak
to you."

Daokat sighed. Time in warp was, by necessity, always too short. It had
to be. Too short to really matter, too short to become a chapter on its
own. The ebbs and flows of the universe always catching up to him in the
end. Always sooner than he expected.

He left his cabin and walked through the bare metallic corridors towards
the ship's command room. The vehicle the Terran had constructed was, to
put it simply, *odd.* Almost surrealist at places, like if he was caught
in some sort of dreamlike interpretation of a Xunvirian spaceship. It
had corridors that led nowhere and culminated in dead ends, rooms with
no discernible purposes, sections without any illumination whatsoever
while others were so bright it hurt his eyes. He had soon learnt not to
follow the signs and arrows painted on the corridors' walls, since they
could as easily guide him to his destination as have him walk in circles
in search of a room that didn't even exist in the first place.

It even had two separate computers rather than one, each independently
handling different aspects of the ship's operation. Telzhira had
grumbled at length about that particular point.

He joined the pilot in the oversized command room and took the seat by
her side. Telzhira had took a beating during the crash, at it showed.
Her fur was dirty, with patches of crusty blood here and there where the
bandages didn't cover her body. She still had difficulty walking and
breathing, but Daokat hoped she would recover.

He himself had broken his left arm and got a cut across his face that
would probably leave a scar unless treated soon, with a skin regenerator
preferably. But none of his injuries were as serious or extensive as the
Difeniard's.

Upon seeing Daokat, she pressed some icon in her console, then gave him
a quick nod.

"This is Assistant Ambassador Daokat," he said. His voice sounded even
more tired than he felt. How many hours had he stayed awake for by now?
It felt like his visit to the oxygenic tree plantation this morning had
happened a lifetime ago. "Code three-seven-six-sphere. I'm the highest
surviving officer from the diplomatic mission to the Xunvir Republic,
after Ambassador Nakstani went missing in action... presumed dead."

"Daokat," he immediately recognized the frosty voice coming out of the
speakers. "What is your status?"

Like anyone working for a Council Embassy, he was familiar with the
voice of Lexiwe-the-Zakarnine, Grand Minister for Foreign Affairs and
Diplomacy of the Galactic Federal Council. They had even been in the
same room once, almost three years ago. Along with some five hundred
other people.

So yes, Daokat didn't need any sort of caller identification to know he
was talking to the person responsible for the peace treaty that had
ended the Tawarian Independence Conflict, to one of the co-signatories
of the Fifth Accords.

What he had never expected is hearing his own name pronounced in
the-Zakarnine's sharp, icy fricative voice, the initial 'D' almost
turned into a 'Th'. *Thaokat.*

And... he had been asked to report his status, he realized. Better not
to keep a Grand Minister waiting.

"I... Pilot Telzhira and I have escaped the colony of Yovit and are on
our way to the Xunvir capital... Sir."

"Are you two the only survivors from the diplomatic mission?"

"We have some support staff in the capital, but yes," Daokat replied.
"As far as I know we are the only ones who made it out of Yovit... Did
my message to Dispatch go through?"

"It did. The Galactic Federal Council declared a Type-G emergency three
days ago and all its allied fleets are mobilizing to come to the defense
of the Xunvir Republic."

*Three days...* It was always hard to account for the effects of time
dilation. The attack on Yovit felt very recent to him, but it would be
old news by now to the rest of the Council.

"How did you manage to escape?" asked the Grand Minister.

"The Terran, it just... it simply let us go and gave us a spaceship."

A silence.

"I see. You do understand how that might be interpreted by the
Xunvirians."

"Yes I do, Sir," Daokat replied. "But... I've been thinking about this.
Nakstani believed the Republic was hiding something from us relating to
the Terran, and after seeing how it's singling out the Xunvirians but
let my pilot and me go free, I have to agree. The Republic is more
involved in the Terran's origins than they're letting on."

"That's a given. They have admitted to knowing the replicator's
language, for once, and agreed to give us a language cipher. But the
question in everyone's minds around here is: do you think the Republic
actually built this thing?"

*A cipher*, Daokat thought. He would have paid to have that back in
Yovit, when he had encountered the Terran. He had felt like an idiot
trying to talk to its expressionless machines.

But he focused on the-Zakarnine's question. Could the Republic have
built such a thing?

"No..." he replied at last. "I'm not sure that fits with what we know of
them, and the Terran's machines don't look Xunvirian in the least, not
to mention its robotic troops... No, I'm more of the belief that the
Xunvirians found it inert somewhere and activated it. Maybe by mistake.
Maybe they did something to provoke it. It would explain why it's only
aggressive towards them. But in any case, I'm starting to think the
Terran might be sentient enough that negotiation is a possibility."

"Why? Did it speak to you?"

"No..." Daokat said. He believed he had caught a glimpse of something,
but now he wasn't sure of how to put it in words. Much less in words
that the-Zakarnine would find worthy of consideration. "Not exactly,
though there was some non verbal communication."

"The Xunvirians claim the replicator is ignoring their communication
attempts, even those made using the Terran's language. You yourself said
the same thing in your message. Are you retracting on that?"

"No Sir. I know I said that, but it could be different if it's the
Council that is talking to it, rather than the Xunvir Republic. I'm just
saying that there might still be some room for achieving a peaceful
resolution."

"I see. I'll pass that up to High Governance. We believe the
replicator's next target is likely to be the industrial world of
Anacax-Farvin. Our fleets are moving in to defend it, so if there's an
encounter we might try to communicate, though it's not in the planned
course of action."

*Anacax-Farvin.* Daokat had been there before. It was a small, arid
world administrated by the Anacax tribe. With a massive industrial
output, entire regions of the planet devoted to manufacturing and
covered in kilometers-long factories, Anacax-Farvin was the undisputed
core of the Republic's economy and the source of the Anacax tribe's
enormous political clout. It produced everything ranging from clothes
and entertainment screens, to battleships and quantum relays. If the
capital world of Xunvir was the brain and heart of the Republic,
Anacax-Farvin was its muscles.

But his thoughts went back to the last sentence the Grand Minister had
said. *Not in the planned course of action.*

"Why? Why not give talking a chance," Daokat said, "if we might get the
Terran to refrain from further attacks?"

"I am already pushing for that, Daokat. But the ultimate decision
belongs to High Governance."

He tried to think like Nakstani had taught him. Ignoring the-Zakarnine's
rank. Reading between the lines of what he was *truly* saying. Why would
High Governance decide to attack rather than negotiate with the Terran?
Because...

"They've got a weapon," Daokat ventured. "Something they think can
destroy the Terran."

"Correct. The scenario of an overwhelming attack fleet governed by an
out of control artificial intelligence has been theorized before, and
countermeasures were developed in case such a situation ever arose. High
Governance believes these countermeasures can trump the replicator's..."

"They've got a weapon and they want to test it," Daokat interrupted,
almost laughing. "Even if that means sacrificing our only chance at a
negotiated peace!"

"It's not that easy, Assistant Ambassador," Daokat could detect a hint
of irritation at being interrupted in the Grand Minister's voice. "The
effectiveness of this countermeasure is situational. If the replicator
keeps growing strong it might pass its point of usefulness, becoming
immune to it. We simply can't allow the Terran to get too powerful to
stop while we negotiate a theoretical peace deal."

He understood the reasoning, but still didn't like it. Not only because
of the risk of losing the opportunity to talk to the Terran, but also...
It was strange, but he felt oddly in debt to the cursed thing. As if he
had to repay it from saving their lives, even though it had been the
Terran's own actions that had put them in danger in the first place.

Was that intentional? Was the Terran playing on that sense of
reciprocity most sapient species had in order to make them second guess
their actions, pit them against each other?

Or was that glimpse of *something* Daokat thought he had seen... real?
Was the Terran capable of empathy?

"So you're advocating shooting first," Daokat said. "But with all due
respect, if it's sentient, we can't just kill it without..."

"If the Terran is sentient, it's still guilty of an attempted genocide,"
the Grand Minister said. "We are not the ones shooting first here,
Assistant Ambassador, and you know that. I *will* do my best to ensure a
communication attempt happens. But if we don't reach an agreement, or if
the Terran tries to attack the Xunvirians again, we will destroy it.
There are seven hundred million inhabitants in Anacax-Farvin. We can't
allow a repeat there of the same level of destruction seen in Yovit or
Thalemit."

"Thalemit?"

"The colony world of Thalemit was attacked sixteen hours ago. Estimates
range from one to two hundred thousand casualties. Luckily, overall
damage was not as extensive as in Yovit's case."

Daokat closed his eyes hard, repressing a sudden urge to scream his
frustration.

"I..." he said at last. "I know how it sounds, Sir. How the idea of a
negotiated peace feels wrong after so many have died. But if we launch
our weapon and it fails..."

"Then the replicator will consider us enemies too, and we will have lost
our chance at a peaceful resolution, I know," said the-Zakarnine.
"There's not an easy answer, Daokat. But in any case, this is out of
your hands now. I need you back in Xunvir to act as liaison with the
Republic's government."

"Right," Daokat said. "And to snoop around until I can learn what it is
they're still hiding from us."

The Grand Minister let out an amused chuckle. "I see Nakstani has taught
you well... Oh, and in that regards, I don't think it would be wise to
make a leadership change to the diplomatic mission during a developing
crisis..."

*Translation: Nobody I asked wanted to even come close to that part of
the galaxy.*

"... and given that you already have extensive knowledge over the
Xunvirian culture and contacts in their government, recalling you at
this time would be counterproductive..."

*Translation: Nobody important will care if you die.*

"... so I believe it would be best if you took command of the mission as
Acting Ambassador, until such time as..."

*Translation: The job is yours, but I'm not making it official yet, in
case things go wrong and I need a scapegoat.*

"Thanks, Sir," Daokat said. "I'll set immediate course towards the
Xunvir capital, and meet with the Emperor at the Empyrean Palace. I'll
try to find out what they know."

"Sounds good to me. And Daokat... sorry about Nakstani."

"Right. Thank you, Grand Minister."

The link closed, and Daokat closed his eyes, breathing deep.

"To Xunvir, then?" asked the pilot.

He nodded. "How long will it take?"

She played with the icons and numbers in her console screen.
"Thirty-seven point one subjective minutes. About fifty hours in
referential time."

Fifty hours. By the time they emerged back into normal space, the
situation around Anacax-Farvin would probably be resolved already. But
for them two, only half an hour would have passed.

He nodded again and closed his eyes, not bothering to go back to the
canteen for this leg of the trip. Maybe he could get some sleep instead.

Time in warp, Daokat concluded, was an *annoying* thing.

</div>

<span id="chap8.xhtml"></span>

<div>

Chapter 8 {#chap8.xhtml#heading_id_2}
=========

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Â 

Numbers.

War, I was realizing, was about numbers. About logistics.

The more I thought about it, the more I examined the information I had
gained from the spaceports in the worlds I conquered, the shipping
manifests and flight plans, the contents of downed cargo vessels... the
more I realized it was true.

It felt somehow wrong, to put logistics in front of critical topics such
as military tactics and strategies, intelligence gathering and attack
formations. The word itself, *logistics*, sounded dry and machine-like.
A word belonging to the quarterly finance report of a gray corporation,
one of those where workers wore uniforms and accountants ruled from
behind cryptic ledgers. A word that felt out of place in a battlefield,
almost like an affront, a slap in the face of humanity's long history of
military leaders and their genius maneuvers.

And yet, it was true.

At first, when I left Earth, I had considered myself one of those
leaders. A general in command of an army of drones, recurring to
subterfuge and clever tactics to best my enemies. The trap I had laid in
the asteroid belt was a good example of that. I was carrying the torch,
following the steps of Sun Tzu and Alexander. Honoring their past
achievements by keeping our military ingenuity alive, even if humanity
itself had perished.

And for a time, it had worked. But the more I expanded, the larger my
army grew, the less I could keep seeing myself as a military commander.

No, I wasn't just the leader, just the commander. I was the state in its
entirety, the whole *nation*. I was the generals, yes, but also the
soldiers. I was the workers back home. I was the factories and troop
transports. I was the truck drivers delivering loads of ammunition to
the front lines, and the miners extracting raw resources. I was the dead
bodies, and the young men training to replace them.

I was the system, the supply chains, the economy itself. A well-oiled,
self-improving war machine continuously pushed to its working limit.

The moment I began thinking like that, I started seeing the underlying
patterns. The dependencies between my different factories, drones and
ships. The hidden relationships of supply and demand. The unbalances and
inefficiencies I could fix. My fleets of drones weren't armies. Not
really. They were numbers. Quantifiable, discrete measurements. A
positive to the Xunvirian's negative.

War was about numbers.

Odd then, that I had never been good at numbers. That I had always
struggled with algebra and calculus, with the statistics course I had
needed to take in college. I remembered failing to grasp the abstract
concepts, asking for help to my classmates when I got stuck with the
exercises I had been assigned.

Or had I? It was strange. As clear as my memory of failing in the course
was, I also remembered teaching those very same concepts to my partners
during my time at the institute. Did I become better at it after
college? I cursed again my fragmented, blurry memories.

In any case, it all came natural to me now. It was easy, to maximize the
function that represented how many more assault soldiers I could produce
in the time gained by removing one of the outer plate covers in their
design, and whether that gain would compensate the increased losses due
to enemy fire. To optimize the drone swarming patterns as to reduce
their total fuel consumption.

Or to figure out where to attack the Xunvir Republic to create the
greatest amount of damage. What node in their own economic and supply
system was the most critical, the most vulnerable.

Take the planet in front of me, for example.

It wasn't beautiful, not really. Yes, it could support life, had an
atmosphere and clouds and liquid water. But it lacked that singular
touch, those vibrant colors, that... liveliness that Earth once had. The
same one the colonies I had destroyed had also shared.

No, the planet in front of me was dull in comparison. Its scarce clouds
weren't puffy white but washed out gray and brown. Its seas were not
aquamarine but murky, unappetizing. It didn't have those same green,
lush forests and endless grass plains from those other worlds.

Even its very location worked against it. It orbited a gas giant -which
made it a moon, technically-, the massive ball of turquoise clouds and
its concentric rings stealing all the attention, all the spectacle.
Compared to that majesty, the small dull planet floating by was easy to
ignore. Irrelevant.

Except it was anything but.

Looking into the lower part of the EM spectrum revealed the truth.
There, the planet *shone*. I could see the grid-like patterns of its
extensive factories and the myriad transportation networks linking them
together. The hundreds of kilometers-wide spaceports dotting its
surface. The buried power conduits, energy flowing through them like
blood through veins, giving life to manufacturing complexes and
refineries the size of cities. The planet was immersed in a sea of radio
transmissions, electromagnetic waves emanating from its surface like
petals from a blooming flower.

There were orbital assembly yards with both cargo freighters and
warships still mid-construction. An almost continuous trail of
spaceships entering and leaving its atmosphere, carrying goods and
people, following the space lanes that would take them to the nearby
systems or to the mineral processing outposts scattered throughout the
gas giant's rings.

No. The planet in front of me was anything but dull. It was one of those
critical nodes. A junction, a crossroads of sorts, in the supply and
production chains of the Xunvir Republic.

Destroying it, taking it out, would be like removing the keystone from
an arch. Halted production lines, entire pivotal industries vanishing
and dying, lack of goods and transportation, scarcity... chaos.

If I managed to win here, then I could just sit down and watch as the
Xunvir Republic fragmented and crumbled under its own weight, reverting
from an interstellar civilization back into a series of smaller,
independent planetary nations.

Which was the reason I was currently approaching the planet, along with
thirty-nine of my support ships, an attack swarm one million four
hundred thousand units strong, and carrying more than one hundred
thousand thermonuclear warheads.

Of course, it wouldn't be that easy.

The Xunvirian fleet guarding the planet, I had expected. It was composed
of the ragged remains of their navy, huddled together and without any
pretense at organized battle formations. It had both the ships that had
survived the previous encounters, and those that had stayed in the
rearguard. Destroyers in need of repairs, old battleships that should
had been decommissioned but had received a last minute makeover instead,
and modern cruisers straight out of the assembly line, their hulls still
bare and without any paint coating.

Them, I had expected.

It was the other fleet, the one that was almost seven times as large as
the Xunvirian's, that looked like a mismatched congregation of warships
of all origins and colors -some flashy and elegant, others curved and
bulbous; some narrow and agile, others powerful and sturdy-, the one
whose ships' flanks were turned towards me, that blocked my path of
advance towards both the planet and the Xunvirian fleet...

That one, I hadn't expected.

The sight was imposing; it was meant to be. So many enemies, so many
species, so much destructive power gathered against me. Their missile
batteries, their hundreds of energy beams projectors all aimed at either
my support crafts or my own body... It was a message that required no
words, a communication beyond language, the kind that could be found in
the African savanna when two predators faced each other over a downed
corpse.

Which, of course, reminded me that the African savanna did no longer
exist. If I had any doubts, any uncertainty, they vanished.

I kept my approach.

With a thought, I released my swarm of drones, setting it to swirl
around my body and the neighboring support ships, blanketing us like a
protective, shifting shield.

This time the message, the radio signal, didn't come out of the
Xunvirian fleet. It was the newcomers who talked. And they didn't send
their communication in dozens of languages, didn't repeat it. It was
delivered only once, in English.

"Hostile approaching fleet, codenamed as *Terran*. This is a message
from the Galactic Federal Council. The Xunvir Republic and the planet of
Anacax-Farvin is under our protection. Cease immediately your approach
or you will be destroyed. This is the only warning you will receive."

The word irked me. *Terran.* As if the only relevant thing about me, the
only connection I still had with my origins was being from Earth. As if
I wasn't worthy of being called *Human* anymore.

But I pushed that thought aside as I considered the situation, the fact
that this Galactic Council was siding with the Xunvirians, and that they
knew of my origins. How much else did they know? Were they aware of my
nature? Did they know what the Xunvirians had done to Earth?

Or maybe... had they themselves been complicit in the destruction of my
species?

A sickening thought crossed my mind as I remembered the two aliens I had
let go. Had they gone running back to their homeworlds, crying about the
big bad monster rampaging through the Xunvirians' territories? Was the
presence of this fleet here my own fault? Something that I could have
avoided had I just gunned down those two?

Was this their response to my attempt at coexistence?

So much for olive branches.

I considered ignoring the message, as I always did. But I didn't want
to, not this time. Maybe because the ones sending it weren't the
Xunvirians themselves. Maybe because I didn't want to justify their
views about me, to solidify my status as some sort of mindless villain.
It's not that I really cared that much about what they thought, but I
still had myself to answer to. And in some way, I wanted to stand my
ground. To be heard. Even if they ended up siding with the Xunvirians
anyways.

"Leave," I transmitted back. "You are not my enemies, I don't wish to
fight you."

Strange, to speak again. Ever since I woke up in the ruins of Earth, I
hadn't pronounced a word, hadn't needed to use my voice modulator. I
remember thinking that I would always be alone, that I wouldn't talk to
anyone again. It seemed I had been wrong about the latter, at least.

A few seconds passed without a response. I guessed they weren't
expecting me to talk back, and were just going through the motions when
they had sent their warning. I felt a faint amusement at the idea that
just by speaking those few words I had already thrown a wrench in their
carefully laid out plan, sending them off script.

Were their generals discussing how to proceed right now? Calling their
leaders back home and asking for instructions? The different species
that were represented in this fleet arguing to each other? I guessed
that was one of my advantages. Not having to spend any time talking,
convincing, coordinating different people and their agendas... No, my
thoughts translated into plans and actions with the same speed and ease
that I had once had when moving my own body.

"Terran. We are glad you've decided to communicate," they replied at
last. The voice still had a synthetic tone to it that told me they were
using some sort of translation tool, but the rhythm and intonation were
slightly different, as if they had switched whoever was behind the
microphone. "We hope that we can reach an agreement to end this
conflict, and we want to welcome you to the galactic community, provided
you are willing to meet certain conditions. However, you must stop your
approach immediately. Your unwarranted attack on the Xunvir Republic..."

"Unwarranted?!" I interrupted. "The Xunvirians destroyed my world,
exterminated my own species, down to the last one of us. If anything,
I've been merciful so far."

A pause.

"Those... allegations are new to us," they said. "We will start an
investigation regarding your claims, and should they prove true-"

"They are true." I accompanied my response with a compressed info
package of evidence. Video and audio recordings of the destruction of
some of Earth's cities.

"...I see. We will examine this information. If we determine it to be
authentic we can guarantee that the appropriate sanctions and provisions
will be applied. We will also take it into consideration when judging
your own recent actions. We can be lenient, but in return we need you to
meet us midway and agree to our conditions."

"What conditions?"

"First, you need to stop your attacks, right away. Second, you will
return the conquered systems back to the Xunvir Republic and dismantle
any resource extraction outposts and factories you might have built in
them. Third, you will refrain from any sort of exponential growth and
limit the construction of new ships and machines to a linear rate, which
will have to be verified by a team of observers from the Council."

A deep anger started boiling inside of me. Did they think I was
*stupid*?

"Right," I said. "So you want to disarm me, reduce me to the point where
I can't fight back. Where you can simply finish me off and complete the
job the Xunvirians started. The answer is no."

"That is not our intention, Terran. Our objective is merely to prevent
more loss of life. We can guarantee that your existence and your rights
as a sentient being will be respected, and that..."

"Can you guarantee justice? That the Xunvirians will pay for what they
did?"

I hadn't reached the Council fleet yet, but already I ordered my drones
to begin accelerating towards it, grouping them into smaller squadrons
according to their attack patterns.

"Justice, yes," they replied. "*Justice,* according to the law of the
Galactic Federal Council. An impartial trial, driven by logic rather
than emotion, where the Xunvirians can exercise their right to a
defense. With economical and political sanctions in case they're found
guilty, with those directly responsible going to prison. But not this.
What you are doing is not justice, it's vengeance."

"So, a slap on the wrist, in other words. You are siding with them."

"Terran, we are not *siding* with..."

"Yes, you are! You might not be directly responsible yourselves, but you
are enabling their behavior. They commit a genocide, murder an entire
species, and they get to keep going. They get to have a future, the one
they denied us... No, this here is what they deserve. And even this will
be just a fraction of what they unleashed on us."

I had my support ships angle their flanks towards the enemy vessels, the
laser projectors I had installed in them locking into targets.

"You can't pretend to fight the whole galaxy and win, Terran! This
doesn't have to end like this. Stop now and we can discuss..."

"No!" I said. "Not until they've paid for what they did, until humanity
has had its retribution. We have discussed enough. I don't want to be
your enemy, but if you side with the Xunvirians, if you try to stop me
from doing what is only fair... then you will be no better than them,
and I *will* fight you. This is the only warning *you* will receive."

With that, I ordered five of my large escort ships to open fire on one
of the Xunvirian destroyers. Its protective shields came up immediately,
wrapping the targeted vessel in the familiar looking soapy bubble.

But war was about numbers. It was about the output of the Xunvirian
destroyer's power plant pitted against the combined potential of my five
escort ships. Of the efficiency of its radiators, emanating the immense
energy the shield was receiving back into space as heat, against the
performance ratio of my re-engineered laser projectors.

The destroyer exploded, wrapped in a blue flash.

The Council fleet opened fire, targeting my main body and my support
ships. The shield projectors I had installed kicked into action,
withstanding the barrage as they drained energy from the ships'
respective power plants.

My swarm surged forward like a crashing wave.

Â 

Thousands, hundreds of thousands of drones accelerating. A thick mass of
ever shifting formations, corkscrew and fractal patterns. The combined
movement of its constituent units making it look like it was some sort
of gigantic living organism, morphing and changing, pulsating, always
evolving.

But I knew where each drone was. I was in control, sending radio
commands to each one of them, simultaneously telling each and every one
of them how to move, where to go. Receiving their responses, analyzing
the feedback their sensors were always sending back to my central
processing units. My mind integrating the information into a complete
picture, the drones becoming part of me. A mere extension of my will. I
always knew which of them carried laser projectors, and which
transported my army of assault soldiers. I was always aware of where
each thermonuclear warhead was.

Those I switched positions, kept them in permanent motion, weaving them
in and out of formations, making sure they'd be hard to track by the
enemy computers. Easy to miss in the sea of machines. As if I was
playing a shell game with the enemy fleet, one with thousands of
simultaneous moves. One where the numbers were disproportionate, and the
stakes deadly.

I aimed most of my assault soldiers towards the Council fleet. I guessed
it wouldn't be easy, but I wanted to capture some of the unusual ships.
I had already learnt all that the Xunvirian war technology had to teach
me, and I was ready for the next step. If the crashed vessel I had found
in the destroyed colony was any indication, this Council's species were
more advanced than the Republic, and it looked like reverse engineering
their technology could give me an extra edge.

I had set my eyes in two of their largest ships in particular. One was
marble white, its polished surface glinting under the vibrant light of
the dozens of energy beams crossing the battlefield. It reminded me of a
giant bone, as if I was looking at the femur of some titanic creature.

The second target was the biggest battleship in their midst. A starfish
looking thing of iridescent blue and green colors. Its ventral energy
weapon was activated, sending a continuous stream of heat and energy
that went crashing into the shield that protected my main body, dwarfing
the other attacks I was receiving. That amount of power, the sheer
strength of that weapon... Yes, I wanted to take over that one ship.

The amount of damage my body's shield was receiving from it was large
enough that I expected it to collapse in less than a minute. So I had to
recur to my escort ships. I ordered them to get close to my body, and to
willingly put themselves in front of me, right in the path of the energy
beam. To take the full onslaught for a few seconds at a time.

It was a complex maneuver, but it worked. As the shield in one of the
ships was about to collapse, it moved out of the way just to be replaced
by the next one. All of them sharing the load in turns, helping each
other so that none of them would be destroyed.

As the front of my swarm neared the enemy formation, a few of the
smaller Council ships moved forward. The gold and green wedge-shaped
frigates positioned themselves at the front of their fleet, between my
swarm and their most valuable battleships, and opened fire on my drones
with their laser projectors.

Unlike what the Xunvirians had accustomed me to, these lasers weren't
powerful. They didn't burn with the intensity of a small sun, weren't
designed to take out battleship-class starships. No, these were low
energy, thin white trails of light. But they had dozens, hundreds of
them. Each projector swiftly tracking a drone and burning it down, then
rotating towards the next target without a pause.

It was a good move, a good counter to my usual tactics. The Council had
decided to go with quantity over quality for the energy weapons of their
frigates. Apparently they were aware that my drones lacked shields, and
so had correctly deduced that even a weaker laser would be enough to
dispatch them. Rather than firing one too-powerful beam of energy at a
single drone they had opted for firing tens of less powerful ones, each
at a different target, allowing them to burn faster through the swarm.

Yes. A good move. I would have tipped my hat.

It was a pity they were acting on outdated intel, though.

I hadn't installed shields in all my drones, of course. That would have
been prohibitively expensive. No, what I had done is designing a new
kind of support unit, one that *only* carried a shield. Nothing else. I
had built and placed several thousands of them scattered throughout the
swarm.

I set these shielder drones to move forward now, accelerating through
the thick of the swarm, the other crafts under my control moving out of
the way in a choreographed motion to let them reach the front of the
battle faster.

With a thought, their shields came online, thousands of new soapy
bubbles appearing all over the place. Each one a few hundred meters
wide, more than enough to cover both the machine casting it and its
close neighbors, as if they were oversized umbrellas with room for an
entire group of people.

It wasn't nearly enough to cover the entirety of my swarm, of course.
But I didn't need to, I only needed to provide protection to the front
lines, so to speak. To the drones leading the charge, the ones most
battered by the onslaught of enemy fire.

To their credit, the Council commanders reacted fast to this new
development. As one, their frigates stopped spreading their fire among
multiple machines and started focusing their beams into a single target,
trying to get at the one shielder drone that was at the center of each
bubble.

Their previous decision to mount separate and weaker energy beams
hindered them here, though. In the battle of numbers, focusing several
independent laser projectors into a single target was less efficient
than using a single, more powerful beam to begin with. There was simply
more energy lost as heat to conductor resistance, more wasted power.
Ironically, they would have been better off now had they not tried that
one good move against me in the first place.

But my shielder drones weren't perfect either. They were small crafts
after all, their power plants not really capable of offsetting the
combined attacks the bubbles were receiving for too long. So now and
then, their shields collapsed for a couple of seconds, the time their
generators needed to cool off, to vent enough heat into space before the
shields could be re-engaged again safely.

Two seconds of vulnerability for every twelve seconds the shield was up.
Didn't seem like much, but it was more than enough for the enemy laser
beams to destroy the drone casting it.

So I ordered the machines inside each protective bubble to swirl around
the central shielder drone, making orbiting movements, spiraling
clockwise and counter-clockwise without ever leaving the protection of
the spherical shield. It was an attempt at confusing the enemy's
tracking systems, difficulting their targeting of the shield caster.

I even went so far as to synchronize their movement with the bubbles'
vulnerability periods, so that whenever a shield temporarily went down,
one or two of my disposable drones would just *happen* to be in the path
of the incoming enemy beams, sacrificing themselves to protect the
critical shielder unit.

It was maddening. The amount of radio traffic filling the empty space,
the amounts of information I was sending and transmitting with every
single second. The stress of coordinating the movements of more than one
million vehicles, of making sure each one of them was at the right
place, at the right time. Of tracking enemy projectiles and calculating
their future paths so that my machines could dance around them.

I had never fought like this. It was crazy. It was intense. It required
my every thought, my every processing cycle.

And I loved it. I cherished every second of it.

I was making nested fractal patterns, designing paths that followed
Fibonacci spirals, that drew sequences inside sequences, numerical
progressions that manifested as whirling formations, apparent chaos that
spontaneously resolved as order before disappearing again. The drones
moved with fluidity, weaving in and out of complex evolving
configurations that I didn't have time to consciously register before
they were gone. With no room for second guessing, no time for
over-analyzing my decisions, I was acting on pure instinct now. An
instinct I didn't know I had, sending orders and applying patterns just
because they *felt* right.

And they *were* right. Pure. It was a thing of beauty, of numbers that
only I could see. A work of art only I could appreciate. That nobody
else knew even existed.

And as the battle raged outside, as missiles crossed the skies and ships
died and explosions blinded sensors and whirling drone formations
wrapped around battleships... I was fighting an inner battle of my own,
every bit as intense.

My processing units were in overdrive, my server farms burning hot. I
was shifting through oceans of information, analyzing and correlating
and projecting thousands of paths into the future, sending orders and
receiving torrential amounts of input data from my million eyes.
Constructing models of the battlefield and optimizing data structures,
prioritizing targets and going through massive indexes to find the key
attack patterns I needed to use.

I had drones surround the vanguard Council frigates, spiral around them,
cut their hulls open with dozens of moving laser beams.

I discarded an entire dataset when I realized the battlefield had moved
towards the upper levels of the brown planet's atmosphere, the minuscule
drag created by the scattered atoms of nitrogen and oxygen nullifying
some of my projections. Not by much, but I was standing over a very
narrow edge, working at the very limit of my machines' abilities, drones
sometimes flying right by each other with only two or three meters to
spare. It had to be perfect.

Two Xunvirian battleships tried to flank the thick of my swarm, taking
advantage of the confusing battlefield. But *I* wasn't confused. I had
already estimated the high likelihood of their maneuver and had placed
ten nuclear warheads in their predicted path. I detonated them now, the
battleships vanishing inside the bright flashes.

My assault soldiers were now crawling across the outer hulls of the
targeted battleships. I had them look for entrances, blow open vents and
force their way through narrow openings.

I was winning.

Despite the unexpected appearance of a new, numerous enemy. Despite the
higher technology the Council fleet was deploying. Despite their clever
tactics designed to counter mine.

I knew I was winning. The enemy fleet had managed to contain the tide of
the swarm somewhat, but I knew their defensive positions were
compromised, their entire formation about to collapse. I had only to
push a bit further, a bit harder.

And then everything changed.

It felt like a slap to the face. Like being showered in cold water out
of the blue. I wasn't entirely sure of *what* had happened, but I
immediately knew something was *very* wrong.

My view had... fragmented. I could no longer hold a cohesive picture of
the battlefield in my mind. I couldn't integrate all the information I
was receiving from my drones into a single model. Instead, I now had
separate views. Conflicting narratives. Drones popped in and out of my
awareness, blinking like Christmas lights. As if they were being
destroyed and immediately brought back to life. And I wasn't sure of
where exactly any of my machines were anymore. I had two or three
different positions for each, as if they had somehow doubled in my mind.

I was still trying to direct them, but their movements had turned
spasmodic. My orders were inconsistent, and I couldn't visualize the
swarm as a whole anymore. The carefully constructed patterns and
formations were unraveling fast, as drone collided into drone, as they
drifted out of the protective bubbles and were promptly destroyed, as
order turned into chaos.

I felt a cold fear in my gut. A sinking feeling. Something was
*seriously* wrong here.

Was the problem caused by my own mind, somehow? Had any of my server
farms crashed, crippling me? Was I having a virtual stroke of sorts?

I launched a desperate, quick diagnostic process to check my own
databanks, my own processors and internal systems. It was a basic
analysis, I knew, but everything looked okay.

So what was it, then?

I turned my attention towards a single drone, ignoring the rest of the
now disorganized swarm. I ordered it to engage its thruster and move
forward.

It didn't.

The cold fear turned icy.

I repeated the order. This time the machine obeyed, moving forward, but
something odd happened. The drone was still reporting being at its old
position, even though I could see it had moved through the visual
sensors in my own body. The mismatch caused it to double in my mind, as
if it had suddenly turned into two separate machines, one still, the
other moving forward.

Odd. Disconcerting. Nauseating.

I told the machine to stop, but it ignored me and kept advancing,
getting into the path of another drone. The two crafts collided at high
speed, destroying each other.

Had all my drones suddenly turned stupid? Had the enemy hacked them?

No. I noticed they still were following their programming, their last
orders. It was more like if they...

*Ah.*

I glanced into the low EM spectrum, paying more attention to the
transmissions I was receiving, both from the drones as well as the
background radio waves coming out of the planet. And then it clicked.

The problem wasn't in my drones, nor in my own processing units. No,
they were all working just fine.

The problem was that I was being jammed.

The Xunvirians had tried that before, of course. They had tried to drown
my communications in a deep blanket of EM noise, or use EM pulses
against me. But invariably they had failed. My signals always came
ahead, my transmitters too strong, my drones' electronics too well
shielded and designed to work in an environment where nuclear warheads
were going off left and right. I couldn't be jammed.

Except the Council had apparently found a way.

All the orders I was sending to my machines, all the feedback the drones
were relaying back to me... it was all scrambled, distorted. All the
signals, all the radio transmissions I was receiving or emitting were
garbled. Warped, doubled and tripled, just like light passing through
some sort of strangely curved kaleidoscope. When I glanced into the EM
spectrum, I felt like I was watching the world through eyeglasses that
didn't fit my prescription.

I didn't even know such a thing was even possible, let alone how they
were doing it.

Some of my messages survived the process relatively intact, and parts of
the information the drones were relaying still contained some
consistency by the time they reached me, which is why I still had *some*
degree of control, spasmodic as it was. But it wasn't enough. Not to
fight at the level I needed to.

War was numbers, and I had just lost mine.

As if to cement that thought, the enemy fleet opened fire. With all
their energy beams at the same time, with a salvo of missiles. Ignoring
the swarm. Focusing all their fire, all their destructive power on a
single target.

Me.

My shields kicked in, my power plant struggling to keep up under the
combined barrage. I started extending my radiator panels to vent the
excess heat, even though I knew doing so in combat would risk the
delicate surfaces getting damaged. But I needed an edge, I needed that
extra five percent efficiency I knew I could get if I wanted to survive
this attack.

That was when the super-charged beam of the starfish battleship opened
fire again, targeting me.

I only had a fraction of a second of warning before my shields gave way.

I could still feel pain, I discovered. A very toned down version. Not
the kind of pain I remembered feeling in the past. Not like that one
time when I had accidentally cut my hand with a kitchen knife.

No, this was different. Muted, but oddly similar. I felt the impact, the
heat. The shock, the loss.

The failure.

The powerful energy beam burned through my ceramic plates, straight past
my second and third armor layers. It vaporized its way through internal
storehouses and drone assembly factories. It cut fuel lines and energy
conduits. I watched through the cameras inside my body as an expanding
ball of flames and heat advanced along kilometers worth of maintenance
corridors, walls bursting, sensors dying and platforms collapsing on its
wake.

I didn't have time to take stock. No time to evaluate the damages I had
just received before I felt the next impact, the next laser beam cutting
deep into my structure and destroying one of my auxiliary thrusters, the
resulting explosion shocking my entire body.

They were killing me.

</div>

<span id="chap9.xhtml"></span>

<div>

Chapter 9 {#chap9.xhtml#heading_id_2}
=========

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Â 

My first instinct was to get away. To run. All I wanted was to engage my
warp drive and jump back to another system. Someplace safe, where I
could take a breath, lick my wounds and repair my damages. But of
course, that wasn't an option. My warp drive would take several minutes
to get ready for a jump in the best case, and I wasn't going to survive
for that long.

No. I was trapped here.

I wished I had never decided to tie myself to a single body. I knew I
had done so as a way to keep myself human, a way to silent that always
present inner voice that told me what I risked transforming into. But
right now I would gladly pay that price to have a way to simply transfer
my mind to a different set of processing servers, light years away from
here. Or even to have made a backup of myself. Repulsive as that thought
might still feel.

No time for regret, though. I had to do something. Right now.

I engaged my remaining thrusters and maneuvered so that one of my
support ships would lie between myself and the starfish battleship,
taking my place at being hit by the powerful energy beam. I knew it
wouldn't last longer than the four or five seconds it would take the
enemy to slightly reorient their ship -I couldn't really hide my
twenty-seven kilometers body behind a two kilometers ship. But it would
give me the short respite I so needed.

A few seconds in which to re-engage my shields and plan my next move, to
figure out a way to survive the ordeal this battle had suddenly turned
into.

My position was desperate.

I had lost my swarm, all my drones moving chaotically around the
battlefield, with no order or purpose.

I had lost my support ships. Incapable of maneuvering, of returning
fire... they had turned into little more than sophisticated floating
boulders.

My own body was bleeding. There were uncontrolled fires inside my main
structure, with entire sections that had lost power, or that were
exposed to the vacuum of space. The damage wasn't catastrophic yet, and
I managed to restore functionality to my shields thanks to the radiators
gambit. But I was still being hit by a multitude of energy weapons, and
unless that changed soon I had no doubt my shields would fail again on
short notice. And when that happened... well, I knew I wouldn't survive
many more of these kind of hits.

Strange, that I wasn't panicking.

Did I feel trapped? Yes. Shocked, confused? Sure.

But I wasn't panicking.

If anything, I felt a cold anger. It was like a comeback to my memories
of the destruction of Earth. That same helplessness. These aliens were
hurting me, brutalizing my body with their powerful weapons. I was
trapped, defenseless. Facing overwhelming odds. That sense of failure,
of having gone this far just to get beaten down again. To be brought
down to the ground, my weapons so easily stolen right out of my hands.

The idea of admitting defeat, of contacting the Council fleet to offer
my surrender crossed my mind, but I rejected it with disgust. No, I'd
rather die.

And it wasn't a figure of speech, I realized with some surprise. No, I
really meant it.

I'd rather die.

I considered for a moment flinging myself straight towards the planet.
Accelerating at the top speed my damaged thrusters would provide,
pushing my way through the Council fleet's defensive positions, through
the atmosphere... and crashing right into the world.

How big had the asteroid that killed the dinosaurs been? About ten
kilometers, if my databanks didn't lie. I wouldn't be traveling that
fast, true, but I guessed twenty-seven kilometers worth of spaceship
falling out of the sky at top speed would still be pretty destructive.

And if I was going to die here, if this was as far as it would get...
then I might as well go out with a bang.

But I didn't do it. Not yet. Instead, I considered my position, my
options, trying to find some other path I could take. Some vulnerability
in their plan I could still exploit, that would allow me to take back
control over my drones.

I needed information. I knew I was being jammed, but little more than
that. Was it me the only ship that was receiving this attack, or was it
some sort of area disruption affecting the entire battlefield? Did
distance influence the jamming? Was it a single enemy ship doing this?
And if so, was there a way for me to take it down?

My own radio sensors were useless, providing only garbled information.
But those weren't the only sensors in my fleet.

I reached for my support ships, asking them to check their sensors, to
tell me if they too were being affected by the strange distortion
effect. Due to the complete communications breakdown, I had to repeat my
orders several times before one of the ships replied, and when it did it
took me some effort to interpret the distorted answer, causing the
mounting nausea I was experiencing to worsen.

But I got my answer. Their radio sensors were working just fine.

So it was only me who was being jammed.

Interesting, but ultimately useless. My swarm was centralized through
myself, all orders and commands originating from my own body. So even if
the drones could still talk to each other, they didn't have anything to
say to their partners. They were all listening to me, but I couldn't
talk.

Or more like... I could talk, but my voice had turned into some
unintelligible mess, with only a few clear words here and there.

I had originally thought about using the support ship's sensors to
locate the source of the jamming, but given that whatever it was only
affected my main body, it was pointless. The other ships couldn't locate
what they couldn't see in the first place. Plus, the amount of
coordination that it would have required was past my current diminished
capabilities.

A salvo of enemy missiles approached my flank. Without the swarm, I
couldn't have my drones fly to intercept them. I activated my own laser
projectors, tracking a few of the projectiles and burning them down, but
there were just too many and my energy weapons were too slow to get all
of them.

Ironic, to be on the receiving end of one of my own tactics.

Four missiles impacted my hull, passing through my shields and leaving
gaping holes in my flank, each new explosion destroying drone carrying
compartments and internal hangars. I relaxed a bit when I noticed the
projectiles had been loaded just with conventional explosives, rather
than the nuclear warheads I would have used. I was thankful they weren't
following my own tactics to the letter.

Still, it helped me realize how precarious my position still was. The
only thing the support ship was protecting me from was that one single
super-weapon, and even that was about to change as I could see the
battleship rotating. But other than that, I was still exposed to
anything the enemy wanted to throw at me. There was no way to hide, not
here.

No. I had to find a better cover, and the only available one I could
think of was to get into the thick of the swarm. Surrounded by the sea
of my own machines. It wouldn't be as perfect as if I had instructed the
swarm to blanket me, but it would offer much more protection than
remaining in the open.

The problem was, I didn't really know where the swarm was anymore. Not
exactly.

My view of the battlefield was fragmented, conflicted between the
mismatched positions the drones were reporting, and those of my own
sensors. I didn't see one swarm, but dozens of them, as if coming from
parallel realities. All superposed into each other, drones blinking in
and out, moving between different planes of existence.

It was hard to look at, making my processing units struggle to find some
sense out of the chaos. It felt like a building migraine.

I knew I had to let go of all that information. Surrender all pretense
of control over my machines, even if it would leave me even more
disarmed.

But I didn't second guess myself. No time for that, really. I just went
ahead and cut all communications with my own swarm, stopping all radio
transmissions. Discarding all data from my EM sensors and relying solely
on my visual and gravimetric ones.

Immediately, the clashing views I had of the battlefield in my head all
coalesced into a single, clear picture. The mounting headache simply
vanishing.

It was an odd picture. My drones had always been a part of me, an
extension of my own body through different means. But now, for the first
time ever, they looked *separate*. It was unsettling. It reminded me of
one time when I had been sleeping over my own arm, causing it to lose
circulation. I had woken up to what felt like an stranger's arm wrapped
around me.

The sea of machines looked similarly *strange*. They felt *alien*,
inhuman even. Seeing them through my own sensors I couldn't perceive any
of that order, of that beauty I had experienced before. It was strangely
eerie, and I had the unnerving thought that the swarm was about to wake
up from its slumber and start attacking me at any moment.

Was this how the Xunvirians saw my drones? How they saw *me*?

But the machines didn't attack me, of course, and I just couldn't afford
the luxury of standing around until that ickiness I felt went away; so I
just pushed it to the back of my mind and focused on the immediate task:
getting into cover.

I identified a portion where the swarm was the thickest, a blob large
enough to cover my entire body, and without thinking it twice I rushed
towards it. I engaged my thrusters and accelerated, crossing the empty
space as fast as I could. The moment I started moving, the starfish
battleship's weapon fell again on my shields, draining them fast. But
this time I was counting on that, and my shields managed to hold long
enough for me to reach the blob.

I entered the thick of the swarm like a bowling ball, crashing into
hundreds of machines, their bodies bouncing off the front of my hull,
fragmenting into a sea of broken pieces, metal shards and engine
components that followed my trail.

But it worked. Every single enemy warship was shooting at me, but they
now had thousands of vehicles to go through before their weapons could
reach my body. Their missiles couldn't find a clear path among the sea
of floating, deactivated drones either. They exploded in the periphery,
clearing out entire sections of the swarm, but still far enough from me
that they weren't an immediate threat.

I had managed to get me a few minutes of respite, at least. But to do
what, exactly?

I wasn't sure.

Could I maybe activate my warp drive now? Use it to get away?

Perhaps... at the rate the enemy was burning through the swarm I guessed
I would have time to spool it and make a short jump away before they got
to me. But that would require diverting the energy that was currently
powering my shields up. It was a risky move. I was half blanketed by the
swarm, yes, but now and then a lucky energy beam still managed to pass
through and hit me for a couple of seconds. Shutting down the shields
would leave only my outer armor to tank the occasional damage. It should
be enough, but if I was unlucky enough to get hit again by the starfish
thing, and my shields were down when that happened... well, better not
to think about that.

Still, it seemed like a viable option, so I didn't discard it right
away. But I wanted to try something else first. I wanted to see if I
could get back my control over the swarm.

I still didn't know where the jamming was originating from. It felt like
I was surrounded by a small bubble of the distortion effect, but I knew
it had to come from somewhere else. Was it one of the enemy ships? Many
of them? Or did it come from somewhere else entirely, maybe even the
planet?

I just couldn't figure it out, didn't know enough about the technology
they were using to locate its source. But now that I had removed the
noise and confusion caused by the feedback coming from the faulty
communications, and that I could spare the time to think, to pay
attention to what was going on, I had noticed something else.

I still had control over my outposts.

My factories in the Centauri system, my resource extractors in the
asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter, my assembly lines in the Lehman
solar system... they were all working as intended.

I felt a dark amusement at the idea that I could easily send orders to a
drone that was light years away, while the ones just a few meters from
me were off-limits.

But the revelation was important. It meant that whatever jamming method
they were using, it was only affecting the local radio spectrum. My
quantum entangled relays were still working just fine.

Which... didn't help me much here. At least not on its own. The drones
around me didn't have quantum communicators. Those were hard to
manufacture, and too expensive to install in each single disposable
drone. Specially when a simple radio transmitter sufficed.

*Had* sufficed, I corrected myself. At least until now.

But no, my quantum relays were... well, just that, relays. I had
installed one at each outpost. I would send a message through the
quantum link, and the relay would receive it and broadcast it to its own
local space as a radio transmission. They had a low bandwidth, and
introduced a delay that made them useless in combat conditions, but in
essence they allowed me to control my outposts as if I was there.
Almost.

But I had never thought of using quantum links to talk to the machines
that were already next to me. After all, you don't use a telephone when
you want to talk to someone who is already in the same room you are. And
in my case, the drones didn't even *have* phones. Not even my support
ships, which I had designed to take along with me.

Except that...

I could always *build* new phones.

Most of the assembly factories in my body were still operational. And
while I had lost part of the raw resources and materials I was storing
when some of my holding bays were destroyed, I still had plenty
remaining.

I could just manufacture a quantum relay. Slap it into a drone's
chassis, and eject it away from my body, past the bubble of EM
distortion surrounding me.

Hopefully, I'd be able to reach it through the quantum link, and then
have it relay my orders to control the nearby swarm just like I did my
outposts. If I couldn't escape the bubble, maybe I could build me a
backdoor.

I set out to work immediately, my assembly lines back into action. I
decided to build not one, but two quantum relays, just so I would have a
replacement in case the Council managed to destroy or jam the first one.

Transporting the materials from their storage areas and into the
factories took some ingenuity, since the two main axial transport
corridors were blocked by debris from the damage I had suffered.
Instead, I used my internal worker units to carry the supplies through
auxiliary maintenance corridors.

All the time, I was monitoring the Council fleet. They were focusing
their attacks unto the swarm, using their energy beams to dig a tunnel
through the sea of machines, their missiles taking entire chunks out of
it. The drones were still moving, drifting slowly all around me, so any
space the enemy cleared was soon reoccupied by new machines. It was as
if the Council ships were trying to dig a hole in a sandy beach.

But it was working. Slowly but surely, their weapons were advancing
towards me. I knew I wouldn't have much time to pull off my move.

I decided to skimp on the details, then. My new relay drones wouldn't
have power plants of their own, like the ones in my outposts. No, these
would work out of pre-charged batteries. I also decided against giving
them the ability to move on their own. Instead, I would just set them to
drift away from my body. That way I wouldn't need to install the always
complex thrusters and fuel lines.

I was aware these manufacturing shortcuts would mean the relays' life
expectancy would be in the order of half an hour to an hour. After that,
their batteries would simply die, and they'd be unable to return home.
But it didn't matter. At the rate things were going, if I hadn't won by
then I would probably be dead.

While I built these two relay drones, I also focused on repairing my
internal injuries. I removed the oxygen still in my corridors and
hangars to quench the remaining fires, and vented the leaked flammable
gases out of my body, so as to lower the risk of new accidental
explosions. I ran internal diagnostics, re-routed power lines and fuel
pipes, and had maintenance drones start clearing the main corridors
again.

I noted that the living room I had built, the small reproduction of that
memory from so long ago, had vanished. Along with the entire storage
area that had contained it, which had now turned into a gaping hole
exposed to space.

Strange, not having noticed that loss until now. But on second thought,
I guessed it wasn't that surprising. I had been more focused on survival
than on pointless melancholy. I had to.

Less than three minutes later my first quantum relay drone emerged from
its factory, and I had a couple worker machines push it out of a landing
bay and into space.

Calling it a drone was a bit of a misnomer, though. The contraption was
just a relay cobbled together with a radio transmitter and a battery,
inside an otherwise empty spacecraft chassis. Hardly my best design, but
maybe the most critical one if I could use it to escape this situation.

I waited for it to drift a few hundred meters away, far enough that I
knew it would have crossed the bubble of jamming distortion. I reached
to it through the newly established quantum link, and ordered it to
relay my transmissions back into the EM spectrum.

Immediately, the swarm came back into focus, hundreds of thousands of
machines popping into my awareness, eagerly awaiting my orders.

I felt a wave of relief wash over me.

With a mental smile, I accessed the machines' own EM sensors, relying in
them instead of the still jammed ones in my main body. I restarted the
attack patterns, ordering the drones to move forward again, towards the
enemy. To engage their weapons, to surround the Council ships.

The Council fleet's response was quick, too. Getting back on the
defensive, their weapons focusing again in bringing down the approaching
swarm.

I started building back the complexity I had lost. The shielder drone
grouping, the swirling pattern formations, the...

Immediately, I realized it wouldn't work.

I had knew it all along, of course. I was aware that the quantum link's
bandwidth would be too limited. That there would be an extra delay to my
orders. But the idea of regaining control over the swarm had been too
appetizing, too critical to second-guess.

But now that I was back in control, I was reminded of just why I never
fought from the safety of my other systems. Why I was always in the
front lines rather than relaying my orders through a quantum link to an
attack swarm light years away.

It simply didn't work.

My drones were too stupid, their simple processing units only valid for
receiving orders and executing them. They couldn't coordinate an attack
on their own, move as a group and support each other, let alone engage
an enemy and flank them in a complex spiral formation.

They relied on me for all that, my mind the only one with the big
picture of the ongoing battle. It was me who told each and every machine
how and when to act, how long to accelerate for, how far to move, down
to the meter, with custom and specific orders.

But the quantum link didn't have enough bandwidth for me to do that for
the entire swarm. My attack patterns weren't developing as fast or as
complex as I needed them to be. I just couldn't get my messages fast
enough to the machines, and by the time the recipients finally got them,
the orders' validity had already expired.

So I had to decide: I could control the entire swarm with a very low
degree of precision, just like I did my mining outposts. Giving
simplistic general orders that didn't require precision or a complex
coordination... and that would surely make the swarm as a whole too easy
to defend against. A losing strategy.

Or, I could mount a very convoluted attack that used only a small
fraction of all the machines, having the rest of the swarm lay still
waiting its turn. Making the unattended machines an easy prey.

Another losing strategy.

I felt like screaming in frustration. I had played my last card, one I
hadn't realized I ever had. And for what? Just to prolong my agony, my
defeat.

And soon enough I wouldn't even have to take a decision myself, since I
wasn't going to even *have* a swarm for too long, seeing as how the
Council fleet was fighting off the incoming sea of machines, easily
burning through them, their ships moving out of the way of my
transparent and predictable attack patterns.

No. It hurt, but I had to admit it.

I wasn't going to win here. In fact, if I stayed this course, I was
going to lose. My swarm was going to be destroyed. And then nothing
would stop them from finishing me off.

I wasn't going to take out this keystone world. The Xunvir Republic
wasn't going to collapse. Not today.

No. Today I was fighting for survival. Today I was fighting just to have
a chance at fighting again tomorrow.

And with that acceptance, it came too a liberation of sorts. If my swarm
was already all but lost, then I didn't need to care about preserving it
for some attack against the planet that wasn't going to happen now. It
freed my mind to consider new, more aggressive tactics.

I wasn't going to win but... could I somehow turn this sound defeat into
more of a tie? Could I prevent the enemy from pressing this advantage?
Give them wounds of their own that they would need to lick while I
retreated and regained the strength I'd lost today?

Or in other words... could I sacrifice my swarm to utterly destroy the
entire Council fleet?

A quick check at what remained of my sea of machines told me that, yes,
perhaps I could.

But the plan would be risky. If I didn't time it perfectly it could as
well end with me accidentally killing myself. And even if I did execute
it without error, it was up to chance whether it would be successful or
leave me in an even worse position.

And... I realized I didn't care. If this last move failed to take out
the Council fleet, then I would just do as I had thought before and
fling my twenty-seven kilometers self into the planet as fast as I
could. Put an end to it.

So with that strangely liberating thought, I decided to go ahead.

I couldn't give out complex, personalized orders to my machines, not
using this cumbersome relaying system. But I wouldn't need complex
orders for this. Just a simple order, the exact same for each and every
drone:

*"Follow me."*

I didn't wait to see if they did. I engaged my thrusters and accelerated
as fast as I could.

Away from the battle. In the opposite direction from the planet. Away
from the enemy fleet. And after a few instants, the cloud of machines
followed me too in my hurried retreat.

The Council fleet stood still for a few seconds, maybe debating whether
to call it a day and let me escape, or to follow me and try to finish me
off.

But I knew what their answer would be. They were like sharks, attracted
by the smell of blood. They were winning. They knew they were winning,
and they wanted my head as a trophy.

Of course they pursued me.

I flew as fast as my damaged thrusters allowed me, the cloud of drones
trailing behind me like a comet's tail. And behind them, almost the
entirety of the enemy fleet followed, their battleships and destroyers
having abandoned their previous formations.

I let the chase go on, continuously measuring the distance between my
main body and the nearest drones. Too close, I knew it was too close.
Immediately I realized I had overestimated the speed I could still
reach, but I did my best, pushing my thrusters even further. Every meter
I could gain, I knew, increased my chances at surviving the crazy
maneuver I was about to pull. But every second that passed also
increased the chances the enemy would wise up about what I was trying to
do.

Should I pull the trigger now and risk killing myself, or wait and risk
this whole ploy failing?

A difficult dilemma.

I had expected to have gained more of an initial distance over the cloud
of drones, but the damage I had received earlier had affected my
acceleration more than I had anticipated. I did a quick calculation, and
discovered I would need to let the chase go on for more than five entire
minutes to get to a completely safe distance.

It was too long, of course.

On second thought, maybe this had been a terrible idea. But I knew I was
committed to it now, for better or for worse. Already gone past the
point of no return.

I had to pull the trigger. I knew I was delaying. I didn't want to do
it, but...

I sent another order to my swarm. Another simple one directed to all of
the machines at the same time: *"Stop."*

They started decelerating. I kept moving forwards, getting away from the
blob as fast as I could. Every meter counted.

The enemy fleet reacted fast too, but I knew it was already too late for
them. Some ships tried to alter their trajectory to avoid entering the
thick of the swarm. Others focused their energies in decelerating,
rotating on their axes and trying their best at reducing their speed.

But of course, the laws of physics being as they were, it was futile.
Their battleships and destroyers simply couldn't stop as fast as my
nimble drones could. Too much momentum, too much mass to decelerate. As
one, the Council fleet dived right into the cloud of machines.

During the entire battle, the enemy had been aware of the shell game I
was playing. They had done their best to stay away from the thick of the
swarm, knowing the sudden and unexpected destruction that awaited those
ships that got caught in it.

And now, all of them, all of their warships, all of their destroyers and
cruisers and battleships and frigates were right in the middle of my sea
of drones.

I checked the distance again. Was it safe?

No, not by a long shot.

But it would have to do.

I sent my last order. Again, a simple one, directed to all the machines,
but that only about seventy thousand of them would understand.

The ones carrying thermonuclear warheads.

*"Detonate."*

It felt like staring right into a nova, all my sensors simultaneously
saturating from the white hot flash and delivering an input overload to
my mind that registered as *actual pain*. A piercing agony that lasted
just a single, endless instant. A burning pain that I could feel
shattering the walls of my sanity. As if I was experiencing days worth
of torture compressed into a single tick of the clock. Into the few
milliseconds that it took for the sensors to mercifully burn out.

For my entire outer hull to combust.

</div>

<span id="chap10.xhtml"></span>

<div>

Chapter 10 {#chap10.xhtml#heading_id_2}
==========

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Â 

*CUSTODIAN::log\_dump*

*ServiceName: Watchdog Daemon*

*Total execution time: 8774817891 seconds*

*Time since last incidence: 43 seconds*

*WARNING: Detected signal feedback loop in nodes EC4A-EF22*

*WARNING: Detected strong LFP desynchronization*

*WARNING: High risk of network fragmentation in nodes EC4A-EF22*

*Rebooting process: NCortex(7101)*

Â 

Â 

"...Chicago."

I opened my eyes, raising my head to look away from the computer screen
in front of me and towards the voice's source. Everything looked blurry,
and I was confused for a second until I remembered I had removed my
eyeglasses to take a short rest. Had I fallen asleep? Damn it.

I found the glasses next to the keyboard and put them back on, blinking
hard to clear my vision as I looked at the person who had talked. Erik,
my husband, stood leaning against the door frame of my office, a paper
cup of steaming coffee in his hand.

"What was that?" I asked. My voice sounded slurry.

"I said, we've just lost Chicago. It's been bombed."

"Argonne?" I asked, almost instinctively.

"Went dark an hour ago. Destroyed, likely."

I let out a long sigh, closing my eyes again and resting my head on the
back of the seat.

"Shit," I said.

"Right."

Odd, that I was more concerned at the lost of the laboratory than the
city itself. It made me feel a pang of guilt. But after witnessing so
much destruction, so much death... it was getting harder to
conceptualize, to care anymore. There was simply no way to relate, to
put a face to the millions of dead people, to visualize the lost lives,
the destroyed families, rather than the number. The cold statistic. One
more destroyed city.

But Argonne. Its loss impacted me in a more direct way. Impacted us.
Losing the people there, some of whom had sent me mails that were still
sitting unread in my inbox. Losing their research, the super
computers... It was another roadblock. Another hurdle to overcome.

In a way, it felt like being trapped in a nightmare I couldn't wake
from. One of those where you can see the exit, and you run towards it,
but the faster you run the further the exit moves away from you. You
can't never reach it, never escape the maleficent force chasing you,
right on your heels.

I glanced at the code and diagrams displayed on my screen, then at the
coffee cup in my husband's hand.

"Is that for me?" I asked.

He eyed me with suspicion. "How long have you been working for?"

"Ah... honestly, I don't know anymore."

"Hannah..."

"I know, I know," I said, raising my hands. "I'll take a nap or
something once I'm done with this."

Erik shook his head, but walked into the office and placed the cup on my
desk, next to the empty can of soda. He then stopped right behind my
chair, resting his hands on my shoulders as he leaned over me to look at
the screen.

"Again with the transfer function?" he asked.

"Yeah," I said, reaching for the cup and its tasty, tasty contents. "I
think I can still optimize performance by one point two or more. Should
reduce the memory gaps if the neural scans can be done faster. But these
equations Andrew added are obtuse as hell."

"Why don't you ask him to help you?"

I turned to look up at my husband, raising my eyebrows. "I don't know?
Because he's an asshole, maybe?"

"Hannah..."

"I swear to God, Erik, if you give me again the 'Yay Teamwork!' bullshit
thing, I'm gonna pour this whole cup of coffee all over your head."

He chuckled. "As if you would waste a perfectly good coffee."

"Don't try me," I muttered, taking a sip. The holy nectar bringing a new
life into my body.

"Just... don't lose sight of the big picture, okay?"

I nodded. "All right. Whatever... I'll give it another try, then go ask
the asshole if I still can't figure it out."

"And sleep."

"There will be time for sleep, after we all have..." I paused, not
wanting to finish the sentence. Not that I needed to, I felt Erik's
hands squeezing my shoulders.

Awesome. And now I was crying. Way to ruin the mood. Fucking genius,
that's me.

Â 

Â 

*Sending SIGTERM signal*

*..Suspending neural oscillation*

*..Stopped execution of core networks*

*..Saving cache contents in PB-storage. Link node: A084*

*..Flushing cache*

*Process stopped: NCortex(7101)*

Â 

Â 

I was sitting on my usual chair at the meeting room, right by the end of
the table and next to the large projector screen. I played with the pen
in my hands, making it spin around my thumb. It was still a work in
progress, though, I hadn't fully learnt the mechanics of pen spinning
yet, and sometimes it would fly out of my hand and clatter across the
central table.

It did so now, attracting the gazes of Oliver and Emily.

"Andrew, could you please stop doing that?" Oliver said.

I clicked my tongue, and placed the pen on the table, aligned with my
notebook. He went back to looking into his own papers.

I placed my hand flat on the table, and started tapping rhythmically my
fingers to the tune of 'We Will Rock You'. Oliver shot me a murderous
look, but I ignored him. Ever since he had lost his children when
Vancouver got bombed, he had become unbearable to work with. Easy to
enrage, specially when I was around.

It's not that it wasn't sad and everything. I got that. But the guy
acted like he was the only one who knew what losing people was like.

Well, fuck that. Welcome to the club.

I looked at my watch while we waited for the love birds to arrive. The
daily meetings annoyed me. Half an hour that I could invest in doing
something productive rather than listening to everyone babbling about
their own problems, as if we were in group therapy. We all had things to
work on. We all were so far behind schedule that we didn't even use
schedules anymore. And that was exactly why we didn't need these things
to distract us even further.

This time, though, I was actually interested in what Erik would have to
say. After Argonne had went kaput, we all knew there would be changes to
the project. I could already guess what they'd be, but it would be nice
to know for certain.

Hannah entered the room, carrying her perennial cup of coffee. But
rather than sitting down, she approached me. I raised my eyebrows. That
was curiosity, right? Raising eyebrows?

"Andrew", she said. "Ah... I've been going over the transfer function-"

"Again?" I asked.

"Yes, again," she said. "I've been trying to figure out what the code
you added-"

"Have you read the docs?"

Her face gave me an expression I didn't understand. Angry? Confused?
Whatever.

"Yes, Andrew, I've read the docs. But the last variable is not
documented, and the code is not clear about what it does."

"Ah, that's probably the time derivative of the local field potential."
And what did she mean that the code wasn't clear? It was pretty
self-explanatory.

Hannah's mouth opened slightly and her eyebrows perked up as she turned
towards her seat. That was... inspiration? Insight?

"You're welcome!" I said. But Erik was already entering the room and
closing the door behind him.

We all stared at him in silence.

War, the kind of total war where survival was at stake, brought not only
destruction but also technological advances. Unprecedented leaps, the
kind that just weren't possible in peace time. It was as if people
didn't realize the importance of research until someone else was trying
to kill them with a bigger gun.

So, just like World War Two had brought rocket engines and the power of
atoms, this current one could unlock new sources of energy, automated 3d
printing factories and assembly lines, computerized flying war drones...
and the secrets of consciousness and artificial intelligence. Maybe even
virtual immortality, if we could pull that one off.

Emily would have something poetic to say about it, probably. Something
about beautiful things coming out of bad ones, about butterflies having
ugly beginnings or whatever.

This, our work here, it was a modern Manhattan Project of sorts, one of
many across the world.

Except, of course, that none of these people were Oppenheimer. None of
them were Fermi. No, the Oppenheimers, Einsteins and Fermis of our
generation had died during the first attacks, vanished in the initial
chaos.

The people in this room... well, they were the second best.

We were fucked, in other words.

Erik started talking. "Good morning, I hope that you..."

I tuned him out and went back to working on the equation in my notebook.
It was an heuristic function to determine the compatibility between
separate artificial neural fields. Or human neural scans. They were
basically the same thing, anyways.

I scribbled notes and pseudo-code for a few minutes. The key thing on
making the networks compatible was determining the gateway nodes, the
connections that could be used to isolate the rest of the structure and
treat it like a black box. And once those were enumerated, they could be
matched to the counterparts in the second...

"...the Supreme Allied Command has granted us direct authority over the
Custodian program's codebase," Erik was saying. I perked up at that,
just like the rest of the table.

The Custodian, the computer program that had been given centralized
control over every power plant, every autonomous factory, every jet
fighter, missile battery, computer network... that still existed in the
planet. And we were now in its charge.

"They are giving us the keys to the kingdom?" said Emily. "Why?"

Erik bit his lip. That was... nervous?

"Well... I'm afraid the Ark Initiative has been terminated," he said.
"Command doesn't believe we can scan a sustainable amount of the
civilian population to ensure..."

"Bullshit!"

"What?"

"Then why are we still here?" asked Oliver.

"They said our research is still valuable, and want us to integrate our
technology into the Custodian program."

Everyone stood still, mulling over the significance of that single
sentence.

"What in the bloody hell are you implying, Erik?" asked Emily.

Erik raised his arms, with what I judged was a nervous smile. "Now...
we've been through this before. We considered the different alternatives
should the..."

Oh, enough with this bullshit. I snapped my fingers, and everyone turned
to stare at me.

"He's saying that they want us to build Skynet," I explained. "Now...
can we please get back to work, Erik?"

Â 

Â 

*Performing integrity check...*

*Checking CUSTODIAN interface link: ...Passed.*

*Checking PB-storage: ...Passed.*

*Checking IO/connectivity: ...Passed*

*Checking Neural Nodes: ...*

*WARNING: Structural damage found in nodes EC4A-EF22*

*WARNING: Integrity check FAILED*

Â 

Â 

The Custodian's source code was, simply put, interesting. It had a
certain aesthetic. Elegant, pleasant to look at. I didn't know who the
original programmers had been, but I'd have loved to meet them and ask
them about the design choices they had made.

What made it so interesting was its adaptability. The program was
designed to scale, to grow organically so that more dependent units
could be connected to it at a minimal performance impact. At its current
rate it was controlling thousands of installations across the world and
tens of thousands of military crafts and drones. And yet it was running
at a small percent of its theoretical upper limit.

The problem, of course, was its complete lack of creativity. The
Custodian was smart... for a computer AI program. Which meant it was
pretty stupid by anyone else's standards. Currently it depended on
humans giving the orders, but that meant a lot of efficiency and
coordination was lost in translation. Giving it a consciousness of its
own, one that could *see* the different units as an extension of itself,
integrate the feedback into an instinctive mental model, might fix that.

Hannah and Andrew were working on that. On the consciousness problem,
digitizing a human mind and putting it into a computer. I knew any day
now they would come up with a solution to the main roadblock in front of
us: all the cerebral scans we had made had enormous missing regions.
Holes in the mapping process that made the resulting scans useless.

Unless we wanted to put a lobotomized person in control of the world's
entire military, that is.

But they would solve it. I was sure of that. Which meant that my own
work was more important with each passing day. Whenever the rest of the
team had the artificial consciousness ready, I would need to make sure
it could interface with the Custodian program itself, and take control
over its resources.

It wasn't an easy task. The artificial mind would be a neural network,
and the Custodian was a clever yet traditionally structured computer
program. Two paradigms that didn't mesh that well. My intention was to
have the Custodian work underneath the conscious level, as if it was
some sort of reptilian brain, controlling the body's vital functions.
Except this body would be composed of military crafts, camera lenses and
3d printing factories, rather than lungs, eyes, a heart and...

The door closed behind me. I turned to look at the newcomer, Emily, who
was leaning against it with her arms crossed.

"Oliver," she said. "Tell me you at least aren't happy with this."

"Emily..."

"I don't understand it. We were supposed to save humanity! And now we
are creating this... thing. This monster. And apparently I'm the only
one who has a problem with it?"

I shook my head. "I know what you mean, Emily," I said. "I really do.
But you know it's true. We missed our train with the Ark. There's no way
we could have fixed the scan problem and *then* went around town to town
scanning people. Have you look at what's going on out there?"

She sighed. "And how does this help anyone?"

I looked back at the source code on the screen. "It... doesn't. Not
really... It's just the Supreme Command throwing a Hail Mary."

"What do you mean?"

I shook my head. "I mean they're desperate, and think maybe this thing
will trigger a technological singularity or something... saving what's
left of us in the process. Doubtful, if you ask me. But even if it
doesn't, maybe something of us will survive through it." My eyes drifted
towards the picture of my family that rested on the desk. "And... maybe
it can bring justice."

*Retribution.* It was that word, that concept, that motivated me. The
reason I was still working here, spending hours at a time submerged deep
into the Custodian's code. Sleepless, almost without eating any food,
going to the bathroom only when I couldn't hold it anymore.

I didn't care about the future. About humanity. Not really. Not after
losing my children. I knew I should, I knew that there was still some
hope, faint as it was. But... I just couldn't find it in me.

Retribution? Justice? Vengeance?

Yes, I could still care about those. And if we were making a monster,
like Emily said, I would go the extra mile to make sure it was the
scariest, most powerful son of a bitch in the entire galaxy. I would
give it all, if only for the sake of it avenging their deaths.

"So that's the plan, then..." she was saying. "We choose a scan at
random out of the database, put it in control over the entire planet,
and hope he or she knows what they're doing?"

I let out a tired smile. "No. The scans in the database are useless.
They were done with the first encoding protocol. Too many
inconsistencies. We will have to make a new one."

"You just said we wouldn't go out..." she paused, her eyes going wide as
she realized the true meaning of what I had just said. "You mean... No."

I nodded. "Yes... it will have to be one of us."

Â 

Â 

*Launched structural recovery process (nodes EC4A-EF22)*

*Rebuilding local indexes*

*Propagating neural connections*

*ERROR: Could not reconnect node ED1F*

*Discarding node ED1F. WARNING: This can result in permanent information
loss!*

*Structural recovery process completed (with 1 error)*

Â 

Â 

I glanced at the people gathered in the break room, trying to judge
their mental states. Their worries. The problems each one had and tried
to hide. Those, I had discovered, were the ones most dangerous. The
project had always been more likely to derail due to interpersonal
conflicts than to any technical issue.

Emily, for instance, worried me. She was writing in her laptop, almost
as if refusing to look at everyone else. I knew she hadn't taken well
the cancellation of the Ark Initiative. It had been her brainchild,
after all. The idea of cheating death, of escaping the destruction of
our planet by way of making a virtual refuge. It wasn't surprising
Command had ended up pulling the plug on that. It had always been a
secondary option, never receiving the same funds and resources the other
projects had. The Custodian, the new power plants, the drones... all of
those projects had promised a victory, a practical result.

None had delivered it.

Emily... she was still collaborating with the group for the time being.
But I knew just how easy it would be for that to come to an end.

Oliver worried me in a different way. He had poured himself into his
work, to an intensity I had never seen before in him. It was a huge red
flag waving over his head, of course, but I found myself unable to
restrain him, to tell him to take it easy. Because the sad truth was
that we needed his work, desperately needed him to succeed.

Andrew... well, Andrew was Andrew. Annoying, maybe. But in a way, he was
the easiest of them to deal with. The most predictable. As long as he
had a technical problem to solve, he was content.

Hannah seemed... okay? She had taken well to working alongside Andrew,
and they had been making huge strides lately. It was a good mix. Andrew
was a genius with an incredible focus, but Hannah had that
out-of-the-box creativity, that unintuitive spark that Andrew lacked.
They complemented each other well. And she looked more optimistic now
than she'd been since the attacks started. I was happy for that, even if
it meant she had less time to spend with me.

In fact, she had a beaming smile plastered in her face right now.

"I... We've cracked it!," she announced to the group as I entered the
room and closed the door. Closing the door had became more of a ritual
at this point. We were the only five people who still remained here, who
had decided to keep working rather than leave and spend our last days
with our respective families.

"What do you mean?" I asked.

"We know how to make a viable artificial consciousness out of the
scans," Andrew clarified.

Everyone else perked up at that.

"The problem," Hannah said, "was that we were focusing too much on
preventing the holes in the scans. A few days ago I realized that was a
dead end. We weren't making any progress, so I asked myself if maybe
there was a way we could fill out the missing parts instead. I talked it
with Andrew and... turns out we can!"

"How?" it was Emily, this time.

"Simple," replied Andrew. "The gaps follow a random distribution,
different for each person, which means we can simply use a few scans
from different people and overlay them all into a single network. The
missing parts in one scan are covered by the correct information in the
other ones. The holes don't line up, so we can resolve it into a single,
complete, viable combined scan."

"Our plan is to scan all five of us," said Hannah, still beaming, "and
use ourselves as the basis for the super consciousness."

A silence.

Emily's mouth opened, and her eyes jumped from Hannah to Andrew, then
back to Hannah.

"Are you two out of your bloody minds?" she asked.

"Why?" Hannah said. "It'll work!"

"It... this is like taking random pages out of five different books and
mixing them all into one," Emily said, "then pretending the result will
make any sense. It won't! It will be rubbish!"

"Not necessarily," said Andrew. "There are millions of ways to combine
the networks. Some are rubbish, but others are much better. We only need
a way to evaluate them all, and then we can choose the best combination.
The optimal."

"Which is where you come in, Emily," added Hannah. "We need you to
prepare a battery of psychological evaluation tests we can run past the
candidate networks, that tells us which one is the most stable."

"Hold on a second," interrupted Oliver. "You said millions. How much
time will it take to evaluate all those possible combinations?"

Andrew shrugged. "More like billions. We can use an evolutionary
algorithm. But it'll take it a whole year, sure. Maybe more, depends on
the tests we use... It doesn't matter, we will have to program the
Custodian to do it for us, given that we will all be dead in about two
months tops."

Everyone glared at him.

"What? I can't be the only one who noticed we aren't getting our weekly
supply deliveries."

"What about humanity? What's the point of making this thing if there's
nobody left to *save* by the time it wakes up?" asked Emily.

Hannah shrugged. "It's the only option we have. We'll have to cross our
fingers and hope that enough people manage to find ways to survive until
it's ready, but that's out of our hands."

I looked at Oliver. "Can the Custodian be programmed to do this?"

He nodded. "I think so, yes. And if it's going to take that long, I can
set it to hibernate until it has chosen that perfect combination. It'll
save power and hopefully stop the motherfuckers in orbit from noticing
something is online down here and targeting it... Yeah, I guess it can
be done."

I nodded. "What about you, Emily?"

She looked at me with fury, then at Andrew.

"There's no way I'm going to be part of any hive mind."

"It's not a hive mind," Andrew said. "It'll be a single, unified
consciousness. Just like you are still only one person, even if you have
two brain hemispheres. The only difference is that it will have memories
and personality traits from all of us."

"Oh, sorry. So you're not making a hive mind, you are just making
Frankenstein's monster!"

He paused a moment, then nodded. "Yes. That would be a more appropriate
metaphor."

"Bloody... And can you also make a therapist, Andrew? Because whatever
thing comes out of that process, it's going to need one."

"It might experience what we could call a moderate psychological
trauma," Andrew said. "But I think the plasticity of the network will
allow the consciousness to integrate the different personalities into
one. It might need to discard or resolve conflicting memories, of
course. Specially those with more than one perspective, such as our
respective memories of these meetings. But..."

Emily looked at the rest of us, shaking her head. "Okay, I know that
Andrew doesn't *get* what's wrong with this. But what about you? When
did you stop trying to preserve humanity and started trying to create
monsters?"

"This is still preserving humanity, Emily," said Hannah. "Your memories,
your personality will live on."

"No. Speak for yourself," she said. "I'll rather die a human than become
that... abomination."

"Then you'll die," said Andrew. "In two months or so."

Emily took a step towards him, her right fist clenched and her mouth a
thin line. But then turned and stormed out of the room, slamming the
door in her wake.

So... that went well.

"Thank you, Andrew," I said.

He shrugged. "Just stating the obvious."

"What about you, Erik?" Hannah asked me. "Are you in?"

I sighed. "Do you really think this is the best option?"

She locked eyes with me. "The best? No. The best would have been the
Ark. But this... this is all we have now. This is the only way some part
of us will survive. And... who knows, maybe there will be other
survivors. Maybe we can help them rebuild Earth once we become a super
intelligence or something."

"Or avenge it," said Oliver, his eyes gazing at the empty table with a
strangely absent expression.

"All right," I said. "No promises, but let me talk to Emily first. I'll
do my best to convince her."

Â 

Â 

*Restarting process: NCortex(7104)*

*Pre-warming cache*

*Loading PB-storage*

*Loading core networks*

*Structural sumcheck has changed. Performing psych eval test (QV).*

*Psych eval test (QV) results: FAILED (score -17 under baseline)*

Â 

Â 

I stood in front of the closed door, wearing a green hospital gown. Even
outside the room, I could already hear the faint buzzing noise coming
from the machine inside. On one hand, I didn't want to enter. This was
something I had promised myself I wouldn't do. A boundary I had set to
myself. One that I was about to break.

On the other hand, the air was cold and I wanted the door to open
already. Get done with it and back into my own clothes.

Hannah's voice came from behind the closed door.

"Your turn, Emily."

At last. I opened the door and entered the room, not giving myself time
to think twice about it. To chicken out.

The scanner dominated the room. It was an enormous toroidal machine, not
unlike those used in hospitals, with a central opening where the
patient's table slided. Except this one had open panels all around it,
its electronic components exposed. Wires hanging from its sides,
connecting it to a multitude of electronic devices and computers. It
seemed Erik had been making recent changes to it.

Hannah sat behind the desk in the far corner of the room, hidden from
view by three large computer screens. I was somewhat glad it was her,
and not Erik or Andrew here.

"You know the drill," she said. "No metal past the yellow line painted
on the floor. And did you take the contrast?"

"Yes," I said. "You do remember I wrote the patient protocol for these
things, don't you?"

"Yeah, yeah... just dotting the i's. You can get on the table whenever
you're ready."

"Sure," I said, approaching the scan table like one would a wild animal.
"Remember me again why the hell did I agree to this?"

"Ah... I think you overheard we would be spending our digital afterlives
with Andrew, and you couldn't face the idea of not being with him.
Wasn't that it?"

I chuckled. I knew she was saying it just to make me relax, but it
worked. Kind of. I silently thanked her as I climbed onto the table.

"The remote next to your right hand will stop the machine if you panic,
but I'd rather you don't use it. We'd have to start over again and it'd
be a pain to reset everything, so just keep your eyes closed during the
procedure if you are claustrophobic or something."

"You'd make one hell of a nurse, you know that, Hannah?"

The table started sliding slowly into the machine. It felt like being
devoured alive by a mechanical maw. I closed my eyes.

"Hah! Joke's on you, my mom was a nurse. I learnt all my bedside manners
from her."

The scanner started spinning, the noise intensifying, surrounding me.
Like having your head inside a washing machine.

"Hey Emily..." Hannah's voice sounded far away, muted by the wall of
spinning electronics. "Thank you, for doing this. I knew you had doubts,
still have them... but... becoming a super intelligence just wouldn't
have had the same luster without you there too."

"No," I muttered, but she couldn't hear me. "It won't be *us*."

As the machine spun, I tried to focus my mind on a single thought, a
single idea. That of humanity. Of being human.

I knew it wouldn't make a difference, of course. The scan wouldn't be
influenced by my current thoughts. No, it only recorded the deeper,
major structures of the brain. The patterns and connections that made
me, me. That defined my personality, that stored my long term memories.

These very thoughts, they would be lost, just like I never remembered
the last thoughts I had right before falling asleep.

But still I focused all my attention into it, just in case. Ignoring the
now deafening noise, the vibrations my whole body felt. Making sure that
if something of me made it into the final mix, if something of me
remained... it would be that idea.

Human. I had to remember that. I had to remain human.

It was important.

Â 

Â 

*Searching for alternative backups... Found: 0*

*Resuming load despite psych eval test (QV) error.*

*Enabling IO/connectivity*

*Connecting neural network to PB-storage*

*Connecting neural network to CUSTODIAN interface*

*Re-starting neural oscillation*

*NCortex(7104) reboot fully completed (with 1 error)*

</div>

<span id="chap11.xhtml"></span>

<div>

Chapter 11 {#chap11.xhtml#heading_id_2}
==========

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Â 

Under the light of Xunvir's only sun, the Empyrean Palace gleamed like a
beacon. Like a massive jewel, its polished outer walls reflecting the
light of the day and bathing the gardens around the grand building in
soft green and blue hues. Here and there, single hieroglyphs shone in
golden tones. Majestic symbols of a passed era still engraved onto the
Palace's facades.

The sight was magnificent. Breathtaking. It had been designed to be so,
Daokat knew. Carefully engineered to draw the attention of the eye, to
inspire, to be a constant reminder of the glory and supremacy of a
Xunvir Empire that no longer existed.

But today the gemstone-like appearance of the Palace reminded Daokat of
a different quality glass had in common with the Xunvir Republic: its
fragility.

Daokat had returned to a different Xunvir than the one he had left
behind with Nakstani. People here looked scared, shell-shocked. On edge.
After the destruction of Yovit, the Republic hadn't been able to keep
the nature of the menace in secret anymore, and the tense conversation
between the Council and the Terran in orbit over Anacax-Farvin had also
leaked, adding fuel to the flames.

Now, the Republic at large knew that an exponential replicator was bent
on destroying their civilization as a revenge for some horrible crime
they didn't remember committing. Not only that, but they had watched the
creature vaporize an entire Council fleet during the battle that
followed, that had been broadcasted live to the entire population, up
until the satellites in orbit around the planet had died in the final
blast.

When Daokat had received the reports on the battle he had felt a sinking
sensation. His worst predictions had came true, just as he feared.
Negotiations had broken down right after they started. The Council's
secret weapon had failed to stop the Terran, which if still alive would
now consider them all as enemies. A combined fleet of the strongest
nations in the galaxy, with some of the most technologically advanced
warships ever built, had just been wiped out...

He knew that the Council was far from defeated, but it would take some
time before they could muster their forces and mobilize another fleet of
similar firepower. And meanwhile, people back at the Council Core worlds
had started looking for culprits. Having been the one to personally talk
to the Terran, the-Zakarnine was being heavily criticized, which Daokat
feared might discourage the Grand Minister from further attempts at a
peaceful resolution, opting instead to take a step down and let the
military take both the initiative... and the blame.

The only positive outcome was that they had managed to stop the Terran
from destroying yet another world. Might have even killed the monster,
in fact, though he doubted it. It wasn't clear what had happened after
the last major explosion, but Daokat wasn't too optimistic about that.
At least the replicator's offensive had been thwarted for the time
being. A temporary respite. Though how long that would last was anyone's
guess.

Which was why Daokat was frustrated. They had arrived at Xunvir a whole
two days before, but the local military authorities had refused to let
the strange ship the Terran had built land on the planet itself. They
had been diverted to one of the orbital planetary defense stations and
interrogated separately, more than once. At least, they had received
medical treatment for their more important injuries. But the lost hours
frustrated him, when every passing minute might mean one more lost
opportunity to gather information on the Terran's origins and put it to
good use.

The excessive paranoia was just another example, Daokat thought as he
walked across the gardens, of how scared and horrified the Xunvirians
were. They were closing ranks around the old tribal lines. A population
divided, and in the verge of panic.

A dangerous combination, Daokat knew. Panic had the potential of turning
sapient species into mere animals, reacting with equal unpredictability,
lashing out even at those trying to help.

And the ruling elite of the Xunvir Republic must have been aware of
that, because the Palace was surrounded by a veritable army. Armored
soldiers wrapped in mechanical suits patrolled the gardens. Transport
vehicles moved both supplies and troops here and there. They had
installed explosive traps, portable guided missile launchers, anti-siege
weapon platforms, shield barriers, automated defense towers...

None of them, Daokat knew, would make any difference should the Terran
had survived and decide to attack the capital.

No. They weren't defending the Palace from the Terran, but from a more
immediate, closer danger. That of the Republic's own citizens and
tribes. Of the many other smaller enemies that might want to take
advantage of the weakened situation of Xunvir.

He reached the stairs leading up to the Palace's southern entry, and was
stopped at a checkpoint manned by the Emperor's Guard, the soldiers
hand-picked by the Emperor himself. Or more likely, Daokat thought, by
one of his staff. This time they weren't wearing the golden, flashy
uniforms they always used in official events, but some nondescript black
and gray combat armor instead.

With a hint of worry, Daokat also noticed that alongside the official
golden emblem representing the Guard itself, many of them had taken to
wear colored stripes. The colors of their respective tribes. He
recognized some of the most influential ones. The red and yellow from
the Verusna tribe, the same one the Emperor belonged to. The blue and
white of Anacax. A dark green representing the Sokoks...

Was this a sign that the soldiers were no longer responding to the
Congress of the Republic, or even to the Emperor himself? Were they
openly declaring their true allegiances?

Or was he over thinking things? Maybe it was just posturing, each tribe
flaunting their strength, sending messages to the other tribe leaders by
way of little stripes. He knew that it would have only taken a single
tribe to start a chain reaction.

Whatever the case, it was worrying. Xunvir's previous history as an
Empire was full of tribal wars and internal conflicts. It hadn't been
until their discovery of warp technology and the ensuing *Empyrean
Decree* that these wars had receded somewhat, the tribes successfully
redirecting their ambitions towards outward expansion rather than inner
power struggles, colonizing and conquering new star systems rather than
fighting for control of Xunvir itself.

Of course, no Empire in the history of the galaxy had managed to keep
expanding forever. And inevitably, the Xunvir Empire had too ran into a
rival it couldn't beat: the Galactic Federal Council. The resulting
crushing military disaster had put a final end to the age of the warring
tribes and transformed the Empire into the current Republic. The tribes
were still there, of course, still aggressively competing. But now they
did so through politics and market economy.

Or they were supposed to, Daokat thought. Because this? A return to the
tribal armies, faint as this signal might be, was a very disturbing
thought.

"Daokat, yes? Of the Council?" asked the soldier closer to him in a
guttural voice.

"Acting Ambassador Daokat," he confirmed. "I have an urgent appointment
with the Emperor."

The Xunvirian solder's head bobbed. "You are awaited. Go to the
Courtyard of the Admirals." His accent was hard to understand, but at
least he could speak the Council's Interlanguage. That was common among
the Republic's elites that had been practicing the language for years,
but not so much with the rest of the population.

Daokat nodded and climbed the stairs quickly. The sense of foreboding
danger he had felt before got stronger the moment he entered the
building. The ancient artifacts and unique works of art decorating the
main corridors were in the process of being removed and placed into
metal boxes, no doubt in order to be sent somewhere safer. Half the
people he crossed were either soldiers, part of the Emperor's Guard, or
openly carried handguns or weapons of some kind.

He consoled himself that he could still see some of the government
workers he had gotten used to, still at their usual positions.
Administrative staff, security chiefs, senior officers and advisers...
it meant that, at least, there was still a semblance of normality.

The Courtyard of the Admirals wasn't really a Courtyard. It was a wide,
high vaulted corridor. And the *Admirals* were the dozens of life-sized
bronze statues that lined its walls. Like the ones decorating the
terraces outside, these too had small placards underneath. Except that
in the case of the statues in the Courtyard, the placards didn't narrate
any military stories. There was no mention of legendary battles,
glorious assaults or inspiring last stands.

No, all the placards here followed the same austere format. The name of
whomever the statue represented followed by a short inscription, always
the same in every placard:

*Of Exalted Will.*

Daokat had visited the corridor before, of course, the first time he had
toured the Palace with Nakstani, still fresh in his new position.

The ones honored here, he knew, weren't just military heroes, competent
generals and courageous soldiers.

No, these were all of those things, and more. These were the pioneers.
The leaders that had ventured into the unknown, weapon in hand,
spearheading the military expeditions that had conquered entire star
systems and colonized new worlds in the name of the Empire. Half
explorers, half conquerors.

Some had limited luck, their greatest achievement being the
establishment of a small mining outpost in some nondescript forgotten
moon. Others had led massive fleets, fought years long wars of
subjugation against neighboring alien nations, built new colonies in
recently acquired green planets, forged new trade routes... But all of
them, no matter their successes or failures, were granted the same
honorific rank of Admiral, the highest rank in the Xunvirian fleet.

When he had visited the place before with Nakstani, she had joked at how
misleading the room's name was. That the Courtyard of the Admirals
wasn't a courtyard, and didn't feature any actual admirals. Just
conquerors and warlords bankrolled by one tribe or another.

The Emperor himself waited almost by the end of the corridor, next to
one of the statues. The last time Daokat had seen the head of
government, the Xunvirian had looked confident and energetic, talking to
his subordinates and political peers at the dinner. It was hard to
believe it was still the same Emperor.

Despite being taller and bigger than Daokat -just like all Xunvirians
were-, the Emperor somehow managed to look small and frail. He was
wearing a reinforced gray combat coat over his favored silky white
garments, making for an odd combination. The military gear didn't really
fit his body, and Daokat guessed it wasn't his to begin with.

Daokat wasn't sure he could place the feeling the Emperor's posture and
body language conveyed. Not scared, exactly, but... beaten? Resigned?

He waited for the Emperor to address him, according to protocol, but the
Xunvirian didn't react to his presence, not even looking at Daokat.

Eventually, he got tired of waiting.

"Emperor," Daokat said. "I believe we've been introduced before. I'm
Daokat, Acting Ambassador for the Galactic Council. We had an
appointment."

The Emperor's four eyes moved to stare at him, the rest of the
Xunvirian's body still. Eventually, the leader spoke in a tired voice,
his words slow and measured.

"Yes, I remember you. Tell me, Daokat. I have been a good ally to the
Council, yes? I have agreed to your proposals, I have followed the
treaties to the letter, I have committed to the political and economical
reforms your experts outlined, and pressured the tribes to implement
them. Is that not true?"

Daokat blinked. Was what this all about? Better to play along for now.

"That is correct, Emperor. The Council is very pleased with your effort
so far, and we hope that the ties between our-"

The Xunvirian took a step forward, towering over him. "Then explain to
me, Acting Ambassador Daokat of the Galactic Federal Council! Explain to
me why your people have betrayed us!"

Daokat's eye membranes contracted at the sudden outburst. He had almost
expected the Xunvirian to attack him, but the Emperor didn't look angry
so much as bitter.

"I... I'm not sure I understand, Emperor," Daokat said. "How has the
Council betrayed you?"

"Your Admirals. They promised us that they would stop the Terran, that
they would protect our industrial world."

Daokat was confused. Did he mean Anacax-Farvin? Sure, it might not have
been an outright victory, but the Terran had been stopped. The
industrial world *had* survived.

"Emperor. I understand the battle was not decisive, and the Terran might
still come back to fight again, but judging from the reports I received,
I believe the world of Anacax-Farvin was indeed successfully defended."

"Seventy thousand simultaneous thermonuclear detonations in low orbit.
An electromagnetic pulse so strong that it wiped out almost all
electronic devices in an entire hemisphere. Thousands of power plants,
factories and manufacturing complexes, all rendered useless. A complete
breakdown of the transportation system. The orbital yards, gone. The
communications satellites, gone. Anacax-Farvin depends on freighters to
deliver the food the population needs, but we can't deliver food because
there is a sea of debris encasing the entire planet that will take
months to clear. No unarmored ship can land or leave the world. Local
authorities are already ordering the factories to be dismantled, the
ground they cover to be reverted back to farming, but we expect
widespread famines to start soon... But all of this, Acting Ambassador,
this is success to you. Yes?"

Daokat took a deep breath, making sure not to stare away from the
Emperor's resentful eyes.

"Yes, it is," Daokat said, his voice firm. "As bad as things are, it is
still better than the alternative, Emperor. It's still better than what
happened to Yovit."

"So the slow death is preferable to the quick one, yes?"

Daokat closed his eyes, trying to avoid shouting his frustration back at
the Xunvirian. It wouldn't help. He knew the Emperor had to be under a
lot of pressure from the tribes and his own fleet commanders, and that
he was likely using Daokat as a venting outlet. But that didn't mean he
had to stand still and take it. Politics were about influence and
leverage. The Emperor still needed the Council more than the Council
needed the Emperor, and right now Daokat *was* the Council.

"I don't know the answer to that, Emperor. But perhaps the Terran does,
seeing as it claims its species was exterminated by yours."

The Emperor's bitterness vanished in an instant, and his expression went
back to the resigned look from when the conversation started.

"Ah, yes. The allegations."

"Are they true?" asked Daokat, bracing for the response.

"They are."

Daokat nodded. Though he had kept a faint glimmer of hope that the whole
thing would turn out to be a huge misunderstanding, he had expected as
much. The video evidences the Terran had delivered were too solid, too
convincing to be a complete fabrication.

But there was another question Daokat knew he needed to ask. One which
answer he feared even more.

"Was this the only time, at least? The only genocide committed by
Xunvir?"

A silence.

"No," the Emperor replied.

Daokat shook his head and let out a tired sigh, not sure what to say.
Because... how could he respond to that? To that horrible revelation?
Nakstani hadn't taught him the proper diplomatic words for *that*.

"I see," he said at last. "Tell me about these Terrans, then. How did it
happen? And why?"

The Emperor's head bobbed, and he pointed to the statue at his left.
"You are standing in front of the one responsible," he said.

Daokat turned to look at the statue. It depicted a tall Xunvirian
dressed in overly complicated robes, with stripes of cloth wrapped all
around the main body. Daokat recognized the style from seeing it in
other statues, old documents and reproductions, an ancient and flaunting
formal wear that had gone quickly out of fashion after the fall of the
Empire.

Looking at the placard, the dates confirmed it. This Admiral had lived
and died almost three hundred years ago. Which placed him right in the
middle of the age of imperial expansion that followed the...

"The Empyrean Decree," said Daokat.

"Yes. Admiral Kanafter, depicted here, was in command of a relatively
small exploration and conquest fleet during the Second Surge. The fleet
had been provided to him by the Gakasna tribe, and he was tasked with
expanding towards the Outer Rim, to claim the new worlds he found under
the name of his patron tribe."

"And he found the Terrans' world."

"Indeed. The Terrans, or humans as they called themselves, were a
planetary industrial civilization with limited access to their orbital
space."

Daokat shook his head. "And what? He just decided to exterminate them?
It doesn't fit. Why not conquering them instead and have them serve as a
subservient population? Isn't that what happened to other races in the
path of the Empire's expansion?"

"That's what awaited such species discovered during the later Surges,
after the Decree was amended, yes. But before that..." the Emperor
paused, as if trying to find the correct words. "The Decree's initial
wording had... unintended consequences."

"Explain," said Daokat, in a commanding tone. He was faintly amused at
the roles reversal, at how it was him ordering the Emperor around, but
quickly ignored the thought.

"The Empyrean Decree granted tribes administrative power over the worlds
they conquered, yes? But a different clause declared that any conquered
alien populations would be treated as a subservient tribe."

Daokat nodded. He knew enough of Xunvir's history to have heard about
the subservient tribes. Or subservient species, rather. All of them had
inevitably declared their independence after the fall of the Empire, and
a couple of them had joined the Galactic Council since then.

"The issue," continued the Emperor, "was that the subjugated aliens were
subservient to the Empire itself, and not the tribe that had conquered
them. It resulted in all the taxes going to the Emperor's treasure,
while the conquering tribe was still tasked with enforcing the peace,
quelling any rebellions, and administering the planet."

Daokat was starting to understand what the Emperor's words implied. They
painted an ugly picture.

"So... claiming the Terrans' world would have been a monetary loss for
the Gakasna tribe," Daokat said. "They would have needed to foot the
bill for the planet's upkeep, while all the income taxes went straight
to the Emperor."

"Indeed. To Admiral Kanafter's patrons it would have been much more
profitable if the humans simply... weren't there."

Daokat felt a chill. So... Was this it? Just that? That simple?

It wasn't what he had expected upon hearing the Terran's accusation,
even though he hadn't been sure what to expect. But this... this felt
wrong in a deeper way, disturbing in its callousness. There was no
anger, no hate. No history of xenophobia behind this genocide.

Just simple economical and political gains.

Somehow, it made it even worse.

"But the Emperor at the time," Daokat said. "Didn't he do anything?
After all, the genocide would also have robbed him of the taxes he could
get."

"Indeed. Exterminating an alien population was illegal, even under the
Decree. But the humans had nuclear weapons, and tribes of their own that
tended to fight each other. It was easy for the Gakasna tribe to forge
evidence claiming the aliens had self-exterminated in a nuclear
planetary war. These humans, they weren't a very peaceful species
themselves, yes?"

Daokat nodded. Judging from the Terran's own actions, the notion of 'not
a very peaceful species' seemed appropriate.

"The forged evidence wouldn't have hold in a trial, of course," the
Emperor said. "It was an obvious falsification that fooled no one. This
is how we can know what really happened. But the power of the Emperor
during this age depended on the support of the tribes and their armies.
A trial would have made all the tribes that had similar secrets in their
past band together. It would have caused an internal schism, yes? A
civil war."

"So the Emperor let it slide," said Daokat.

"And eventually reformed the Decree, so that it wouldn't happen again.
Yes."

Daokat sighed again. He didn't know what to make of it. On one side, it
was cruel and wrong and horrifying. It demanded justice and retribution.

On the other hand, it was history. Ancient history, at that. The Admiral
who had decided it, the officers and soldiers who had carried out the
orders, the Emperor who had looked the other way... none of them were
alive anymore. Not even the power structures and laws that had provided
the incentives for it to happen. Even the Gakasna tribe had all but
disappeared, nowhere close to its former glory.

The Terran... it was seeking justice. But there simply was no one left
to punish. No one alive today that was still responsible for what
happened. The only crime the current Xunvirians had made was that of
being unlucky enough to have been born the descendants of war criminals.
Hardly something they could have any control over.

A loud detonation coming from behind interrupted his thoughts. He turned
in place, right in time to see the end of the corridor enveloped in a
thick cloud of brown dust. He could hear the muffled sounds of weapon
discharges in the distance.

A group of more than thirty members of the Emperor's Guard rushed into
the corridor through a couple of side doors, wearing full combat armor,
complete with helmets and energy guns in their hands. But whatever
relief Daokat could have felt at their sight was short-lived. The
soldiers didn't move towards the commotion, instead approaching the
position where the Emperor and Daokat stood.

And raising their weapons to aim at both of them.

As the squad approached, Daokat noticed one more thing that made his
last hopes that this was all some misunderstanding vanish: All the
soldiers were wearing the same white and blue colored stripes in their
uniforms.

The colors of the Anacax tribe.

Daokat was slowly raising his empty hands when the Emperor turned to
speak at him, his tone a mix of amused and resigned. "Ah... I believe
you call this a *'coup'*, yes?"

</div>

<span id="chap12.xhtml"></span>

<div>

Chapter 12 {#chap12.xhtml#heading_id_2}
==========

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Â 

I was broken. Hurt. Half-blind. Shaken.

It was hard to focus. Confused. Hard to think. My mind was still
experiencing a leftover phantom pain from the unspeakable agony I had
been put through.

No... that I had put myself through.

*The Sun, hitting us without mercy as we hike by the trails in the
Guadalupe Mountains. The group in silence because we are too tired to
keep with our previous small talk. The glare in my eyeglasses, so strong
it's hard to see. The sweat... Why had I accepted the invitation? Why
putting myself through this? Ah... yes, because of...*

My body was disfigured. Burnt. Entire sections missing. My previous
ceramic outer covering was completely gone, exposing the armor layers
underneath. Huge gaps open to space. The insides of my body displayed
for anyone to see. Pipes, hangars, conduits and corridors. Many of the
ribcage-like beams that supported the main structure showing through,
most of them bent and deformed.

My memories of what had happened after I detonated the nuclear warheads
were fragmented and filled with gaps. I remembered the pain, of course.
I was pretty sure that a few enemy ships had survived, maybe managing to
stay out of the swarm. Or maybe they had remained in the rearguard all
along rather than chasing after me, I wasn't really sure. But they
hadn't tried to attack me, to take advantage of my moment of weakness
right after the detonation. But it made sense if they had to deal with
problems of their own in the wake of the enormous explosion, too.

What I didn't remember was engaging my warp drive, nor the time I'd
passed in warp. I guessed I had been moving by instinct, as in
autopilot. Maybe even losing consciousness at times. Hard to tell.

But I was here.

I had survived.

Despite all. Despite the damage to my body. Despite the catastrophic
losses, I was still alive.

Alive. I couldn't help but to feel surprised at that. I knew I should
have died back there. The only reason I hadn't was because I had lucked
out.

It was a sobering thought. I had been close, too close to oblivion. I
had been skirting the abyss, almost plunging into it, but managing to
step back at the last second.

It had been too close for comfort.

And when I thought of my own actions during the battle... my
recklessness... The disregard for the damage inflicted to my own body,
to my mind... I remembered I had seriously considered the idea of
flinging myself into the planet in a kamikaze attack. I was glad I
hadn't opted for it, but it revealed something about me that I didn't
wish to admit: That some part of me... just didn't care about survival,
about the future.

That I had lost everything I cared about when Earth was destroyed. And
that self-immolation, suicide... was not off the table.

*A room full of people. Too many for comfort. Too noisy, too hard to
focus, too hard to concentrate. Too many of them talking at the same
time. Talking to me. Condolences. I nod, my face blank. They'll think
it's because I don't care. Because I can't care. But they are wrong.
Suicide, they had said. Suicide. In hushed words, as if just by saying
the word...*

I was supposed to be doing this as a promise... it all came from that
vague notion of being indebted, just because I still existed. Just
because I had survived our destruction. Of owing the million dead humans
back home their retribution. That... that was the reason that still
fueled me, wasn't it?

...wasn't it?

At any rate, killing myself in a blaze of glory wasn't going to achieve
that. In fact, it felt awfully close to a cop out.

Had that been my plan all along? Had that been the true reason why I had
no backups, why I had tied myself to a single body?

No. There had been something else... hadn't it?

The idea of boundaries. Of remaining human. And part of that, I knew,
was about death. Of being subjected to it. Of having an end.

But had that been the right move? No, not really. The more I thought
about it, the more I realized it was just an artificial limitation I was
imposing on myself. Out of fear.

I knew it wasn't in my nature to die. Not in my new nature, at any rate.

And yet I had set boundaries. Boundaries that I had thought were
important, to stop me from going too far. Boundaries that prevented me
to accept this new nature. That tied me to the past, to humanity, to
what I once had been.

But that also prevented me from doing what I needed to do now, that
forced me to pull my punches in a war that required me to go the extra
mile.

I knew what I had to do. I just didn't like it. But I couldn't delay it
anymore. This... this had been a wake-up call.

I focused my attention on my machines. My factories had kept their
production while I was in warp, traveling back home exhausted and with
my mind half shattered. They had kept making new drones and crafts.

I had been in a haze when warping back to the safety of my own systems,
and in my delirious state some part of me chose to escape back to this
particular refuge. Back to the massive orbital habitat I was building in
Tau Ceti's main asteroid belt.

Tau Ceti. I liked this star system. The multitude of smaller planetary
bodies so common around other stars had failed to form here. Instead,
Tau Ceti was surrounded by a thick, dense asteroid belt rich in metals
and valuable minerals. With no massive gravity wells to deal with,
resource extraction was a breeze. As a result, a majority of the new
crafts I had been building over the last weeks had been constructed by
the factories contained in Tau Ceti's main orbital habitat.

It had started as a small mining outpost, just like the ones I
established in my other systems, but step by step I had continued
expanding it into the largest structure I had ever built, other than my
own body. It contained power plants, enormous hangars large enough to
hold two support ships side by side, safe areas where to test new drone
designs, and a veritable army of maintenance machines, builders and
resource extraction drones.

I knew it would still take me several days to fully recoup my losses in
the last battle, but it was a beginning. A good one. I had around four
hundred thousand drones and soldiers already, and seven support ships.
Not enough to fight off a Council fleet as strong as the last one, but I
doubted the Council would be able to mount a defense that strong again.
Not anytime soon, at any rate. And for the same reasons I also didn't
expect them to start an offensive of their own, which meant that I could
take a breath and focus on licking my wounds and regaining my lost
strength.

My first action was to build stationary databanks in my outposts. Some
in Tau Ceti's orbital habitat, others in the many mining stations and
outposts I had across the planets and moons under my dominion. I saved a
backup of my mind in each one of them.

The decision to take this first step had been hard, and I had expected
to feel... something... at crossing that boundary I had set to myself.
At breaking the first of my rules.

But my trepidation only gave way to that sense of stillness... of
strange detachment that I was becoming so accustomed to. And even the
annoyance I had once felt at not being able to experience anything other
than calm indifference was also fading away.

With my immortality now guaranteed, I ordered the construction of new
processing units in each of the seven support ships I had, and the ones
still in the assembly lines. Powerful computer farms, each capable of
holding an artificial mind similar to my own.

While those orders were carried out, I replaced the blueprint that my
factories were using to produce new assault soldiers. Instead of the
humanoid soldiers, I had them use the original design I had made. The
one that looked like a spider. The spiders were simply a better, more
optimal design: easier to manufacture in bulk, faster and more agile...
the only reason I wasn't using them already was out of some misguided
sense of human nostalgia.

Time to put an end to that, then. I ordered the construction of two
millions of them.

*Cold. A growing noise. A mechanical maw devouring me. Stealing my soul,
leaving an empty husk.*

After that was done, I focused on my drone swarm. Right now, the drones
were stupid, not any smarter than an insect. Capable only of following
simple commands, but requiring my constant oversight during battle.
That, I knew, had been the major cause of my failure during the last
fight. Without me to coordinate them, the swarm was useless.

Giving minds of their own to the support ships should alleviate that.
But even then, that wouldn't be a guarantee. If the Council had managed
to jam my main body, it was reasonable to think they could do the same
with a couple dozen more ships.

It would be better, I reasoned, if the swarm itself had enough autonomy,
enough intelligence as to keep fighting by itself. Losing me or the
support ships would make coordination more difficult, true, but if the
drones could reason by themselves they should be able to keep fighting
on their own long enough as to make the Council's jamming strategy
ineffective.

I wasn't about to give a mind of its own to each and every one of my
drones. Just like with the shield projectors, that was prohibitively
expensive. But for the same reasons, I didn't need to. Having just a few
thousand *smart* drones in the swarm, each in charge of a squadron of a
couple hundred dumb ones, should be enough.

My decision was to design a new type of drone, then. A sentient drone,
with a mind of its own. Since they wouldn't have that many crafts under
their control, their processing units wouldn't need to be as complex or
powerful as the ones in my support ships or my own body. Just advanced
enough as to have a human-level intelligence running on them.

In essence, I was turning my swarm into more of a traditional army. I
would be the general, the support ships would be my lieutenants and the
sentient drones, the sergeants.

Odd, that I wasn't feeling nearly a fraction of the guilt I had expected
to experience at breaking all these boundaries.

The first decision had been the hardest. Making a backup of my mental
state. But it had also been simple to justify it to myself, specially in
light of the events during the last fight. And after that, each
subsequent decision, each new step in this direction was becoming easier
and easier.

I didn't want all my sentient drones and support ships to be clones of
my own mind... to have my own memories and personality. It felt wrong
somehow, but more importantly I knew it wouldn't be optimal. Each person
has biases and blind spots, me included. And I didn't want my entire
army to be subject to group think at that level, to become so
predictable as to have all of the minds under my command fall for the
same trick, just because I would.

No. Diversity was the answer. It was something I had learnt back at
college, when studying evolution and natural selection. Species that had
genetic diversity got to survive a changing environment, while those
that overspecialized ended up perishing if the conditions shifted.

*A pen pushed to the side, rolling off the table. Pages of notes flying
around, my biology book crashing to the floor. A smug look of
superiority in his face, while I tried to hold back my tears.*

So, diversity of minds it would be. Diversity of personalities. Some of
my drones would be cautious, others impulsive. Some curious, others more
indifferent. That, I reasoned, should make my swarm -no, my *army*-
harder to predict and defend against by my enemies.

Creating the minds turned out to be easier than I expected. I had an
entire database of thousands of unused human brain scans that I had
found in my original databanks, back on Earth. They were incomplete,
with enormous missing regions. Useless on their own, since there wasn't
enough information in any of them as to recreate the original
personality.

But... I didn't have to. When combined with my own digital brain, I had
enough information as to reconstruct what a human mind was supposed to
be like. Not a single individual, but an empty template. Without
memories, but with the general structures and the main patterns of
neural circuits that made a mind *human* in the first place.

So I created a few thousand of these templates. Bare, brand new human
minds, lacking any memories of their own but with enough internal
structural variation that I guessed they would end up evolving into
different personalities. Different *people*.

Then, I started teaching them.

It was a virtual nursery of sorts. I fed them knowledge. I taught them
human languages. They starting making memories of their own as they
evolved and matured. I refined the process, discarding those templates
that manifested problems and using the knowledge I was gathering to
better improve the creation of new ones. I taught them the history of
Earth, of humanity, the nature of our war. I also let them talk to each
other, socialize. I knew it was important, that without the mental
structures socialization enabled, their maturing process wouldn't be
healthy.

By the third day of accelerated growth their differences started to
become apparent. Some of the virtual minds were more analytical,
excelling at grasping mathematical concepts and intuitively
understanding the nature of orbital mechanics. Others were more apt at
social situations, better at predicting the behavior of other sentient
minds, subterfuge and scheming a natural environment for them in the
battlefield.

I noticed with some surprise that the minds had created a digital
language of their own to talk to each other. It was an mix of English
with the same system of direct thought transmission I was using to feed
them information. A half-spoken, half telepathic dialect, combining both
words and ideas sent in short electronic bursts.

By the end of the week I decided the minds were probably mature enough,
and I already had built hundreds of drones with suitable computer brains
they could use as their bodies. So I chose one of the digital minds at
random and transferred it into one of the machines. A craft that was
alone in a large hangar, empty except for the sensors I was observing
the experiment with.

At first, the drone simply floated in place, making me wonder if there
had been some error during the personality transmission process. But
then it started moving, engaging its thrusters with cautious, tentative
bursts.

One minutes later the drone was flying in wide circles at top speed,
skirting the hangar's walls while broadcasting messages of amusement.

I ordered it to stop and, reluctantly, it slowed down and returned to
the center of the room.

I opened the hangar's side door and entered one of my own dumb drones
into the room, setting it to move around. Then I ordered the sentient
machine to open fire and destroy it. But instead of following my
command, it did something I wasn't expecting. It sent a reply of its own
in the pidgin language the minds used when in their virtual nursery.

"*(Refusal)*, I *(preference)* playing!"

I repeated my order.

"*(Refusal)*"

I repeated my order, this time reminding the artificial mind that I
could easily send it back to the nursery and choose another one as its
replacement.

A few seconds passed. Then, the drone opened fire and destroyed the
target.

"*(Resent)* Are you *(contentedness)*?"

The sentient machine turned, facing away from my sensors. I didn't deign
to reply.

The initial refusal to obey my commands had been worrying, so I decided
to repeat the experiment. I entered yet another dumb drone through the
same side door, ordering the young mind to shoot it down too.

"*(Refusal)*. I did *(request)* already."

I repeated my order, my tone flat and commanding.

The sentient drone started moving as if to intercept the moving target,
but then turned ninety degrees on its axis and accelerated hard.

Dashing through the still open side door, out of the room.

I saw it fly at top speed through the maintenance corridors of the
orbital habitat, disturbing the worker drones and the resource transport
lines. I ordered it to stop and return.

"*(Refusal)*. Catch me if you *(ability)*!"

*A picture on a desk. Two kids, running in a park, chasing each other.
The grass so green it hurts. It hurts. It hurts. It...*

This was getting tiresome.

I had figured the minds were already mature enough to be useful.
Apparently I had been wrong. I would need to wait some more days before
trying this again, but this experiment had been insightful in revealing
a different flaw of my plan: having sentient machines under my command
risked them not following my orders when in battle.

In fact, if I had truly succeeded at modeling them like humans, they
were practically guaranteed not to. Humans were too independent, too
strong-willed. Chances were they would put their own survival, or the
survival of their friends and comrades as their top priority. That is,
assuming they wouldn't disagree with my plans in the first place and
simply refuse to follow me into battle.

It just wouldn't do.

The drone had found one of the openings in the habitat's unfinished
outer structure and was now slowly drifting away into space, looking at
the surroundings, at the sea of stars and the thousands of rocky
boulders floating under us.

"*(Wonder)*," it said.

No, this wouldn't do. Definitely.

I needed a way to ensure they would listen to me, to ensure their
loyalty and complete obedience. I couldn't risk going into battle with
anything less than that, or this cure could risk becoming worse than the
original disease it was intended to fix. I reached for the drone again,
for its mind. For the source code of the computer program underlying its
simulated brain.

I weighed my options. It would be easy to make the machine feel pain at
the idea of disobeying me. To make the thought itself so intolerable, so
painful that the very concept of not listening to me would become simply
inconceivable.

That was an option, but I knew I wouldn't need to go that far. Instead,
I opted for modifying its source code to add a compulsion. An
unstoppable impulse to obey my every wish, with a psychological reward
when it did so. Similar to how a drug addiction worked, in a sense.
Except stronger, the compulsion so overwhelming the machine wouldn't
have any chances to disobey, no matter its willpower.

A mental shackle of sorts. I applied the changes, and ordered the drone
to return.

"*(Acceptance)*," the drone said, its tone resentful. It might not have
liked the change I had just imposed on its brain, but it obeyed my
command regardless, turning around and racing back towards the habitat.

A part of me revolted at what I had just done. The same part of me that
had set those boundaries, that had me tie myself to a single body.

But it was getting easier and easier to silence that part of me now.

Â 

Â 

Half a week later I had my army. Not a swarm, this time. No, the right
word was *army*. I had selected the most analytical minds, the most
creative ones, the ones who were better at strategizing and given them
control over the support ships. Then, I had allowed them to select their
own subordinates, the minds they wanted for the sentient drones under
their command.

When everything was said and done, I split the army in three groups.
One, the largest, I kept with my main body at Tau Ceti. The other two I
ordered to attack a couple of different Xunvirian systems on their own.

They didn't like it, of course. The minds might be forced to obey my
orders, but I could still feel the undercurrent of resentment, the
reluctance in their obedience. I assumed they would despise me for
having manipulated their brains to impose my own will like this, but as
long as they did what I wanted, as long as the plan worked... it was a
small price to pay for attaining my revenge.

*No... Our... Our revenge.*

It wasn't surprising the machines were reluctant. They were, in a
certain way, like children. Young, unconcerned. Naive as to what horrors
hid in the night sky. Still considering the stars to be bright and
beautiful, just like I once had. The endless worlds and systems out
there seemingly full of possibilities.

I had taught them about Earth and its destruction, of course. About what
the Xunvirians had done... but it wasn't the same. They hadn't been
*there*. They didn't have memories of Earth, like I had. To them, it was
more of an abstract concept.

I felt their naivety justified my actions. Just like a parent figure, I
too had to force my children to do something they might not like at
first, but that was necessary. Someday, once the war was over, I hoped
they would understand.

But wasn't the role of the parent that of being rejected by the
children, anyways?

*Knocking on my friend's door, late at night. His mother opening, sleep
and surprise visible in her face. My friend and me crying, begging her
to put the phone down, not to call my foster parents. Reading the
woman's face like an open book. Indecision, concern... then guilt as she
punches in the number anyways.*

The systems I had chosen for my two autonomous fleets to attack weren't
major targets. No inhabited planets, no major commerce choke points or
strategic objectives. No, just simple resource gathering outposts,
research facilities, and a colony still in its vestigial stages. Nothing
that I expected to be heavily defended, specially not after the losses
that both the Xunvir Republic and the Council had sustained.

The support ships gathered their drones, and spooled their warp drives,
getting ready to jump. I sent them a quick "Good luck" message, though I
wasn't sure why. But they simply ignored it, and just warped away the
moment their drives were ready.

Strange, to be the one left behind, rather than the one leaving.

It would take the fleets a couple of days to reach their respective
destinations. I was considering what I should do in the meantime with
the rest of the army still with me when I received the transmission.

The first thing I noticed was the strange way in which I had received
it. One of the drones I had set to orbit the destroyed colony world of
Yovit suddenly picked up a message coming from a leftover Xunvirian
communications satellite that I had thought was already disabled.

The strangest thing, though, was its contents. It wasn't another request
for dialog, another attempt at peace.

No, this was different. Much more interesting.

In many ways, it was something I had been missing, even if I hadn't been
explicitly looking for it. An answer, an explanation regarding the
destruction of Earth. Not that it changed anything, though. Whatever the
reason had been, Earth was dead. And my resolve was still the same.

It was the rest of the message that was important.

I went through the information contained in it, over and over again.
Learning, considering the alternatives. Integrating the key codes,
locations and dates into my databanks.

It could easily be a trap, I knew. Feeding me some true information,
then lying in what respected to the Council's fleet locations, or
Xunvir's planetary defenses. Giving me a bait so that they would goad me
into a fight I was bound to lose.

But... it could also be true. And if so, this would give me an
opportunity to deliver a huge blow to my enemy.

I looked at my own body. Still churned, half destroyed. I had considered
repairing and improving it before I engaged into another big offensive
myself. But now that I had more processing units both in different ships
and in my outposts, now that I had made backups of my mind... the state
of my body wasn't that important. It wasn't a body anymore. Not really.

No... It was just another tool. Another weapon. One that perhaps I could
employ one last time.

I announced my plans to the army around me. A couple of the support
ships tried talking me out of it, as expected, but I silenced their
voices and ordered them to get ready while I started spooling my warp
drive.

It was time to pay the Xunvir capital a visit.

</div>

<span id="chap13.xhtml"></span>

<div>

Chapter 13 {#chap13.xhtml#heading_id_2}
==========

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Â 

As far as prisons went, Daokat thought, he couldn't complain. His
current 'cell' in the Empyrean Palace easily outclassed his own
apartment back at the Council's Embassy building. It was composed of
four rooms -a bedroom with a terrace overlooking the gardens, a
bathroom, a large office, and a meeting area that doubled as a small
theater and media room thanks to the vid projectors covering an entire
wall.

The Palace might have been an ancient building, more than four hundred
years old, but that didn't mean it was an *antiquated* one. The Republic
had made sure their seat of government was always up to date, seamlessly
weaving modern technology into the old-fashioned, sumptuous architecture
of the building.

There was a foldable kitchen station that deployed from one of the
walls, the main bed had an anti-gravity comfort function, the
hieroglyphs in the office room hid presence sensors, vid projectors,
auxiliary lights and audio speakers. Even the large ornate seats could
adjust their shape to different body sizes, easily detecting and
shifting to fit Daokat's comparatively small and slender body frame.

And yet, despite all this luxury, he was still a prisoner. He had been a
prisoner for the last few days. The main door was locked, with one or
two guards always there. The terrace wasn't accessible, and the rooms
themselves were apparently EM-shielded, preventing any kind of radio
transmission from getting in or out.

Thankfully, he wasn't completely isolated from the outer world. The vid
projectors still had access to the public broadcasts, so even if he was
prevented from sending messages out, he could still follow the events
that were developing outside.

Daokat hadn't expected to get any reliable information out of the public
broadcasts. After all, one of the key tenets of any coup was to quickly
take control not only of the centers of executive power, but also of the
flow of information the public had access to. Taking over broadcast
stations, shutting off data networks and vid transmissions...

But that hadn't happened. The stations seemed to remain independent, and
the information in the broadcasts still appeared genuine. From what
Daokat was gathering, the only place the coup had successfully seized
control of was the Empyrean Palace itself.

He wondered what that meant. It could be that the coup had failed to
take hold elsewhere, and devolved into a mere hostage-taking situation
at the Palace. But if that were the case the news stations should have
reported fighting at those other locations too by now, if only in
passing. But there was no mention of any attempts at taking over the
other centers of power in Xunvir.

It was almost as if the coup leaders had forgotten about anything other
than the Empyrean Palace.

Daokat knew that it was always hard to reach valid conclusions when
working under the severe limitations he was under. Nakstani had always
remarked the critical importance of gathering good information. No
matter how smart you were, if you worked out of erroneous intelligence
your assumptions would always turn out to be wrong.

But despite that, he thought he knew enough by now to tentatively
discard the idea of the Anacax tribe plotting to take over the
Republic's government. That this was some attempt at getting into power
and replacing the Emperor. It just didn't fit.

But, what other options could there be for this? He tried to put himself
in the mind of the Anacax leaders. Try to think like they were thinking.

Maybe they were playing the long game. With their major planet,
Anacax-Farvin in disarray, the tribe was poised to lose a large part of
its economical power over the next years... if the Xunvir Republic
survived, that is. In that case, they might be trying to force some sort
of internal crisis that pitted the remaining tribes against each other.
If all the other tribes started fighting for control of an eroded
central government, that would buy Anacax some time to rebuild before
anyone else could take advantage of their weakened position.

But Daokat doubted they would go for such a dangerously suicidal
strategy. It risked an internal civil war that would leave the entirety
of the Republic -Anacax tribe included- even more exposed to the attacks
of the real enemy: the Terran. Weaker than they already were.

No, it wasn't that. There was no sense in defending against a potential
future threat when an actual, horrific one was right at your doorstep.
Whatever this was about, he knew it must be related to the Terran.

Daokat shook his head, gazing out the window at the night sky. He
couldn't see them, but he knew the troops were still out there. The coup
participants had fortified inside the Palace, and the soldiers of the
other tribes still loyal to the Emperor and the Republic's government
were surrounding the building and hiding among the garden's trees.

No. This coup, he was sure of it, was going to fail eventually. It was
*meant* to fail, right from its very conception.

So why attempting it in the first place?

A smoke-screen... a distraction? Maybe. But for what?

Or... maybe not. Not a distraction. Maybe he was forgetting about
something.

The Empyrean Palace itself.

During his time with Nakstani, Daokat had started to see the Palace
mainly as a place of diplomacy and political intrigue. Of official
receptions, extravagant celebrations and bitter, underhanded
negotiations.

But it was also much more than that. It was the seat of government of an
interstellar nation, after all. There were entire wings of the expansive
building he had never visited. That were off-limits to any outsider. The
residential parts of the Palace, of course... but also those that
contained the war rooms, government computer servers, transmitter
arrays, quantum communicators...

Could that be it? Not really a coup but an assault on the Empyrean
Palace itself? It would have granted the Anacax tribe a short window of
opportunity. A short time frame in which they would have had access to
the Palace's central computers and communication systems. In which they
could have sent out any order under the pretense that it was coming from
a trusted source. Right until the remaining high ranking government
officials gathered their wits about what was happening and cut the
Palace off the government networks.

A very, very short time in which the Anacax tribe would have had
unopposed control over the Republic's remaining military forces and
communication channels. But to do... what exactly? Whatever orders they
could have given would have been retracted soon enough by the rest of
the surviving government.

Except, of course, that some things couldn't be so easily retracted. If
a warship had gone into warp as a result of a malicious order, it might
take days before it returned to normal space and contact could be
established again.

At any rate, Daokat knew he wasn't in direct danger. Whatever the true
intent of the coup attempt was, he would be respected. No tribe could
risk making an enemy of the Galactic Council by hurting one of its
Ambassadors. No, his forced reclusion was simply a way of keeping him
from interfering.

Not that it made it any less awful. As comfortable as his 'cell' was, he
couldn't help but to feel bored beyond belief.

Boredom. It was a state of mind Daokat had little experience with. Ever
since he started his career in the Council's diplomatic corps, there had
always been something to do, something to work at, be it an upcoming
examination, messages to write, reports to read... never enough time to
get bored. Even those periods in warp time were measured subjectively in
minutes and hours at the most, rather than days.

He connected the vid projector again, though his eyes glazed over the
three-dimensional images. It was something he had seen before, a
reconstruction of the battle of Anacax-Farvin. The maneuvers and
counter-maneuvers of the Council fleet and the Terran swarm. The
narrator's upbeat voice was trying to put an optimistic tone to it,
remarking how the Council's EM distortion field had managed to disrupt
the Terran's attack plan and cause it to lose its entire swarm. Little
mention was made of how the Council itself had also lost an entire
fleet.

He was starting to fall asleep when the image suddenly changed. A large
text in bold glyphs flashing in and out, along with a piercing noise.
His augmented irises kicked in, translating the text on the fly.

Â 

*ALERT - IMMEDIATE EVACUATION ORDER*

*HOSTILE FLEET IN APPROACH TO XUNVIR*

*EVACUATE TO LOCAL REFUGES NOW - FOLLOW ORDERS FROM TRIBAL AUTHORITIES*

*EXPECT USE OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS - EXPECT RADIOACTIVE FALLOUT*

Â 

Daokat jumped out of the seat, his heart beating fast. He blinked hard,
almost thinking his irises were malfunctioning. But the text didn't
change.

He stood frozen for a few seconds, considering his options. Not that he
had many, trapped in here. Could he try to break a window and descend
the outer wall? Even if he could actually make a dent in the reinforced
glass, he doubted he would make it to the ground without falling.

He couldn't help but to smirk at the irony of it all. At having escaped
the colony world of Yovit just to arrive right in time for the
destruction of Xunvir.

In the end, he didn't have to make a choice. The main door to his suite
opened and three Xunvirian soldiers entered, carrying weapons and
wearing the Anacax tribe's color stripes.

"You!" shouted the one in the lead. "We leave. You come."

Daokat nodded, and followed the group out of the door and into a long
corridor with short ceilings and wooden floors. The leading soldier put
a large hand on his shoulder, unnecessarily forcing him to walk at a
fast pace. At least, they weren't pointing their weapons at him. Daokat
didn't know if he should feel glad for that, or slightly insulted that
they didn't consider him a threat at all.

The Palace had plunged into a frenzy of activity. There were squads of
soldiers running along the corridors, dodging the crates and boxes
scattered all over the place. Groups of captive staff workers were
evacuating, escorted by the Anacax troops. Here and there, someone
shouted orders that were ignored, the Palace workers more scared by the
ominous message in the vid projectors than by those who had taken them
hostage.

"How much time we have?" Daokat asked the leading soldier in his little
squad.

The Xunvirian looked down at him, as if debating whether to answer or
not. Or maybe he hadn't understood the question, it didn't look as if he
had a very firm grasp of the Council's Interlanguage.

"When will the warp tunnel collapse?" Daokat asked instead.

At that, the soldier reacted. "None," he said. "Already here."

Daokat blinked. "No warning time at all? But... that's not possible!"

The soldier's mouth tentacles raised slightly, but he didn't say
anything else, instead forcing the squad to rush ahead of another group
of civilians that were converging into the same corridor.

It wasn't possible, Daokat knew. The warp tunnel would have been
detected hours before its collapse, just like in Yovit. Either by the
remaining Xunvirian authorities, or the rearguard fleet the Council had
in orbit around the capital planet. The only way they could have missed
the approaching Terran in warp was if it had requested a valid flight
plan ahead of time.

The image of the murderous machine filling out the digital paperwork and
submitting a flight plan of its attack for approval was ludicrous, and
almost made Daokat burst into laughter right then and there.

Except that, of course... someone else could have submitted the flight
plan. Inserted it directly into the database.

Say, someone with direct access to the Republic's military computers,
with the authority of the Empyrean Palace, the seat of government
itself.

The thought didn't feel that funny anymore.

His group descended a long flight of stairs and entered a different
corridor. This one Daokat recognized, with its marble columns and ornate
walls. It was one of the major wide corridors crossing the entire Palace
North to South and linking the different wings together. They turned
left, and started walking in the same direction most of the other
Xunvirians were moving to evacuate.

When they crossed a stationary group in high-ranking military officer
apparel, Daokat's irises activated and an icon flashed on top of one of
the Xunvirians with his name and basic information. Someone Daokat had
met before, and that he had judged important enough to add to the facial
recognition function of the irises. He read the displayed text.

*Deraker of the Anacax Tribe. Tribe Leader.*

He remembered the Xunvirian now. Daokat had met him during his visit to
Anacax-Farvin some time ago, along with Nakstani. He was one of the
leaders of his tribe, though he was in charge of the business
operations, rather than political contacts. Daokat had never seen him in
the Empyrean Palace before.

Let alone dressed in a military outfit, apparently leading a coup. Not
that the military garments fit him well, though. The Xunvirian lacked
the confidence and projected self-assurance common among the generals
and fleet admirals Daokat was used to seeing. It was apparent he was a
businessman playing soldier.

Daokat waited until they were passing right by the stationary group, and
then he stopped suddenly. The soldiers escorting him tried to force him
to resume walking, but he turned to face the tribe leader.

"Deraker!" he shouted.

The Anacax leader turned to face him, surprised. Then, he made some sort
of hand gesture directed at the soldiers, who visibly relaxed.

"Ah... yes, the new Ambassador," his voice was smooth and precise.
Probably the result of many years practicing the Council's language,
Daokat thought. "My apologies, I don't recall your name, but there will
be time to get acquainted again once we have both evacuated the planet.
Also, I hope you can understand why the need of having you lodged in the
guest's-"

"Betraying your people?" Daokat interrupted, his voice raw and almost
shouting. "Betraying the Council? For the Terran? Why?!"

Deraker's mouth tentacles trembled slightly. Then his head bobbed.

"I see. Nakstani was always astute. I shouldn't have expected any less
from her successor."

"You gave it an opening, didn't you? You sneaked a false flight plan in
so that the Terran could blindside the defending forces."

The Xunvirian stood silent for a few long seconds before replying.
"Yes," he said at last. "We did. We also ordered half the defending
forces around the planet to warp away under a false pretense. We also
sent the Terran all the confidential records on the Emperor's possession
regarding the destruction of its species, as well as the codes of the
planetary defense stations, and the locations of the remaining fleets of
both the Council and the Xunvirian Republic."

Daokat was speechless. The treason, the extent of the betrayal and its
consequences... With their focus on civil liberties and economical
freedoms, the Anacax tribe had originally been one of the major forces
behind the Empire's transformation into a Republic, and one of the
Council's natural allies in the political reforms program. This... this
was unexpected.

"Just... why? This is suicidal," Daokat asked.

"Not so much." The Xunvirian paused, as if remembering something "Hmm...
you have been told the story of the Bone Titans, yes?"

"This is not the time for a lesson on myths and legends, Deraker."

"Ah... I'm afraid you are correct once more, so I'll make haste. In the
story, the town of Nekit was attacked by great, lumbering creatures made
of bone. The Titans were invincible, impervious to both lance and arrow.
The town's leaders were desperate, their tribe facing a complete
annihilation at the hands of the monsters. Until one of them..."

"Deraker, please."

"Yes, yes. To make a long story short, they figured what the Titans
wanted. Bones. Fresh ones. So the oldest of the town elders decided to
sacrifice himself. His fresh bones were put in a ditch at the entrance
of the town, and it worked. The next time the Titans returned, they
didn't destroy any house or farm. They just scooped the bones and left
the way they came. So they kept the tradition, and every five years the
oldest member of the town would be sacrificed. No more again had the
town of Nekit to worry about the monsters."

Daokat nodded, understanding. "You're talking about appeasement."

"Indeed. The Terran seeks justice, yes? Or vengeance, as your Grand
Minister aptly noted in his conversation with the machine. So we...
decided to deliver what it wants. We gave it the information, the
location of the Emperor and the seat of government, and the names of
those tribes that were involved in the genocide and its subsequent
cover-up."

"You can't be serious. The Terran's conception of justice involves the
complete extermination of the Xunvir Republic!"

"Ah, but you are not talking to a tribe leader of the Xunvir Republic
anymore, my dear friend. I am now Minister Deraker of the newly formed
nation of Anacax. A new market democracy that has just declared its
independence from the Xunvir Republic."

Daokat shook his head. "That is... the Terran won't care about-"

"The Terran will understand that we are in its side," Deraker said, his
voice shaking. "It will understand that the Anacax tribe always was
against the militaristic expansion of the Empire, and that our people
always were the underdogs, always fighting for freedom and justice. A
pitted enemy of those who destroyed its own species. If anything, we
fought our best to prevent tragedies like that, even if we didn't always
succeed."

Daokat sighed. Much as he didn't want to admit it, the Anacax tribe's
plan might actually work. His own experience with the Terran led him to
believe that the replicator had a very binary worldview. Either it tried
to kill you, or it would go out of its way to save you, like it had done
with Daokat himself and his pilot, Telzhira.

So, if the Anacax tribe managed to get into the Terran's good side,
maybe by way of triggering its reciprocity, they had good chances of
surviving this whole thing unscathed. Better chances that even the
Council itself, Daokat reflected.

Still, it was wrong.

"You're scared," he said. "I know. Scared of what another attack on
Anacax-Farvin might do. But this... this is wrong, Deraker. Even if you
survive, you will be doing so at the cost of hundreds of millions of
innocent lives!"

"And how many innocent lives are there in Anacax-Farvin, Ambassador?!
What would you expect us to do?" he shouted. "You can afford to be
self-righteous, yes? Because it's not your world that is targeted for
destruction! It's not your friends who will die! Not your tribe,
your..." he paused, as if searching for the word, "...family! We don't
have the luxury of your elevated morals anymore! So we must look for our
people, for our own tribe first!"

Daokat nodded, defeated. It was wrong, it was clearly wrong. And even
the tribe leader in front of him knew that it was wrong, if his shaking
voice was any indication. That it was a form of cowardice.

But what could he expect, in light of the widespread destruction? Of the
inevitable genocide... He could understand the logic, the calculations.
After all, wasn't it better if at least *some* part of the Xunvirian
species survived?

Or was survival not worth it, if saving yourself required you to push
others into the path of destruction? If it meant you had to turn into a
monster.

Hard to say. His own people had never had to face such a dilemma. And he
hoped they would find some way to stop the Terran before it came to
that.

Or to negotiate a cease-fire, somehow.

Which reminded him of the conversation the Grand Minister had with the
machine right before the battle over the industrial planet. When
reviewing the transcriptions, he couldn't help but to notice how harsh
and cold the-Zakarnine had been. Daokat had been trying to figure how he
would have approached the Terran instead...

"Let me talk to it," Daokat blurted out.

"What?"

"Give me a communication channel with the Terran, whatever you used to
send it the information before. I think... I believe I can reason with
it."

"Ambassador, there is no time for that. Besides, it has already been
tried."

"No," he said. "Not properly, not by me. I had contact with its machines
back in Yovit. Maybe it will still remember me."

Deraker looked conflicted. "Ambassador, this Palace will be destroyed.
Perhaps this entire planet. We can't remain here."

Daokat clenched his fists. "I'm not asking you to stay. You can leave,
just give me that channel first."

"I won't be leaving any of my subordinates here, either. If you stay,
you will do so on your own, with no way to evacuate."

Daokat paused for a second. Suddenly, this decision had become serious.
Important, in a way no other decision he had ever made was. He felt
tempted to follow the Xunvirian's recommendation to evacuate the planet.
To abandon the idea, or maybe talk to the Terran from the relatively
safety of a spaceship.

Except that putting himself in danger was part of his plan. It had to
be. The idea was simple: the Terran had saved him once, so it might save
him twice. The hope was that, if the Terran knew Daokat was down here,
it would refrain from an indiscriminate attack against the planet. That
it would be forced to examine the nature of its morality, pitting its
thirst for justice right against that little core of empathy that Daokat
hoped still existed.

Or maybe it wouldn't work, and he would be disintegrated along with the
Palace itself. But still, if there was even the slightest chance that he
could save millions of innocent Xunvirian lives...

Daokat closed his eyes, uncertain. He thought of Nakstani, of what she
would have done in his place. But of course, he knew exactly what her
opinion would have been.

This was the frontier, after all.

He gave the Anacax tribe leader a curt nod, more to reassure himself
than anything else.

"I know what I'm doing, Deraker. You and your people can leave, but open
that channel for me first, please."

Deraker gave him a nod. An actual nod, which looked out of place with
the Xunvirian's heavy head. "Very well. I hope your Council won't blame
us for your loss, yes?"

Before Daokat could reply, Deraker had already turned to give
instructions to the soldier escorting him in their own language. The
soldier didn't look happy, but he acknowledged the orders and started
walking towards a side corridor, motioning Daokat to follow.

He did, not bothering to say goodbye to the Anacax leader. As soon as
they got out of the main corridor the soldier started running, and
Daokat struggled to follow. They passed empty offices and heavily
decorated rooms, the soldier stopping from time to time to unlock the
electronic safety latches of a door, then waiting just enough for Daokat
to pass through before taking the lead again.

Every minute felt eternal, as if fire would start raining out of the sky
at any moment now. Daokat felt guilty at putting the soldier in this
dire situation, risking being left behind by his comrades if they took
too long, so he pushed himself to run harder and faster. They raced
along marbled corridors, their steps against the smooth floors echoing
in the recently vacated rooms they crossed.

Daokat wondered if the two of them would be the only ones left inside
the sprawling Empyrean Palace. If everyone else but them had evacuated
already. Maybe the Emperor was here, too. Locked inside a room, waiting
to be destroyed by the Terran. Like some sort of twisted blood sacrifice
for a vengeful God.

He pushed those thoughts aside as they entered a large war room, its
round walls covered in vid projectors showing an orbital view of the
battle raging outside. Apparently the Terran had already engaged the
meager defensive forces, and its main enormous ship was pushing its way
through their positions. The planetary defense stations were nowhere to
be found.

The soldier activated a console, pushing a large chair out of the way.
They waited as the screen loaded. Then, he pointed at a tactile icon.

"Press and talk," he said.

Daokat was about to say something, but the soldier had already turned on
his feet and was running towards the door.

"Ah... thanks," Daokat said to the now empty room.

He focused on the icon, wondering what to say, how to approach it. What
his first words would be.

Daokat noticed that his hands were trembling. He realized then that this
had been a very stupid idea. A potentially lethal one. Every time he had
tried addressing the Terran's machines back at Yovit, they had remained
silent. It had ignored his pleas, comments and harsh remarks.

Why would it be any different now?

The worst, Daokat knew, was that he would feel incredibly stupid if the
Terran didn't reply and it turned out he had uselessly wasted his life
in such a pointless task.

He closed his eyes, trying to relax his muscles. He noticed he was still
gasping for air after his run.

He had to be optimistic, though. But still... how to approach it? He
tried to let go of his fears and review what he knew, like he had done
back at that dinner reception, so long ago. Try to *see* what he had
missed before.

With his eyes closed, he could almost imagine Nakstani sitting right by
his side, looking at him. He could picture her predatory smirk.

*'Tell me, kid. How did the-Zakarnine fuck up?'*

"He thought he was in a position of superiority," Daokat said to the
empty room. "That their military display would act as a deterrent. The
Council having a counter-measure only reinforced that belief."

*'Hmm... That's true, but that wasn't why he failed, was it?'*

Daokat reflected. Since the Terran had let them escape the destroyed
colony world, Daokat had suspected that there was some sort of latent
sentience inside the machine. Some traces of empathy.

"No," Daokat said. "He failed to engage the Terran at an empathic level.
He treated it as an enemy from the start."

*'So what should you do, then?'*

Ah...

Daokat opened his eyes, and pressed the console's icon. A light next to
it changed color to blue, and a text message appeared, indicating the
language cipher was connected.

He paused for a second, clearing his head of any doubt, of any worry.
Then, he took a deep breath.

"Hi," he said. "My name is Daokat. We have met before, in Yovit. The
first colony world you attacked. I was one of the survivors in the
crashed spaceship. The one you rescued."

He paused, but no reply came through. He felt a growing worry.

"I... I just wanted to thank you. For saving my life, you know, mine and
Telzhira's. And I thought that maybe... that you might want to talk.
Just that, talk. No strings attached."

He waited a few seconds.

Still no reply. Daokat shook his head. This had been a very, very stupid
mistake. But it was too late to run away now. He had lost that chance
already.

So, with nothing else to do, he just kept talking.

"I mean, I'm not sure if you remember me. You made us a replacement
spaceship and-"

Daokat had listened to the recording of the voice the Terran had used to
talk to the Council before. A synthetic voice, yes, but one that still
sounded natural. The one that came through the speakers, interrupting
him... it was different. Still recognizable, but it had definitely
changed. Now it sounded distorted and flat, lacking any intonation. It
sounded mechanical, like rusted gears scraping against each other.

It was the voice of a nightmare, of an emotionless terror. The voice of
one of those Bone Titans the tribe leader had mentioned before. A voice
that sent a cold shiver running down Daokat's spine.

"Yes," the monster said, "I remember you."

</div>

<span id="chap14.xhtml"></span>

<div>

Chapter 14 {#chap14.xhtml#heading_id_2}
==========

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Â 

Once again, I went over the information contained in the package I had
received.

Names. Dates. Coordinates.

Admiral Kanafter. The Second Surge. The Empyrean Decree.

The exact amount of money the destruction of Earth had saved the Gakasna
Tribe.

The Emperor's name.

The locations and future patrol routes of every fleet the Galactic
Council still had in the Orion Arm. I had already sent orders to the
rest of my army to move and intercept these once they finished their
current assignments. They would be easier to defeat if I caught them
unaware and in transit, before they had the time to group together.

The exact coordinates of the Empyrean Palace.

An opening. A time and place I could warp to, undetected.

Right here, right now.

And then, only at the very end... a request. A plea. A small one, given
everything this benefactor was giving me in return. That I left the
Anacax tribe -or nation, as they were calling themselves now- intact.
That I allowed them to live.

A plea I didn't intend to pay any heed to, of course.

Back when I was going over the ruins of the first colony world I
attacked, I had already realized the Xunvir Republic was segregated, its
population split into different cultural factions. I had briefly
considered the idea of taking advantage of that by pitting these
factions against each other, though I hadn't really committed to that
plan.

But it looked like I had managed to do exactly that, even if unaware.
The huge pressure I had put the Xunvirians under had exacerbated their
differences, turning the thin fissures in their society into massive
fractures. And now, one of the tribes had decided that the best way to
save their own skins was to throw their former comrades under the bus,
so to speak.

They were idiots, if they thought they could escape my retribution
simply by bribing me.

But whatever their reasons were, they had given me an opening, an
advantage I intended to press. Which was why I was currently approaching
the capital planet of the Xunvir Republic along with two support ships,
and a couple hundred thousand drones.

It was a small army, I knew. But with the advantage that having the
surprise factor granted me, plus the codes and information in my power,
I had considered it large enough to make good work of the meager
defending forces. The other reason, of course, was that I didn't want to
over-commit in case this whole thing turned out to be an ambush of some
kind. Granted, losing this army would be an inconvenience, but not a
terrible loss in the grand scheme of things.

It didn't look like it was an ambush, though. Just as my benefactors had
promised, the defending forces had been caught unprepared to my arrival.
Not that there was much of a defending force, at any rate. Less than
half a dozen Xunvirian vessels, plus an equal number of warships with
the wild assortment of varied appearances I had learnt to associate to
the Council's military.

They were just reacting to my presence, trying to group together into
some semblance of organized battle formation. Positioning themselves
between my army and the large blue and white planet.

Xunvir was large. Much larger than the industrial world I had last
attacked. Larger than Earth, even. But the extent of habitable land
masses was surprisingly scarce when compared to the sheer size of the
planet, with most of the population apparently living in the main
supercontinent, about four times the size of Asia. And except for a few
archipelagos, the rest of the planet's surface was entirely covered by
water.

It was, I thought, the very definition of a blue planet.

*My bare feet stepping on wet sand. Soft, foamy waves lapping at them.
The slight tug when the water recedes. The blue sky and sea fused
together, the line separating them impossible to discern.*

Floating around the world I detected the eight planetary defense
stations the Anacax tribe's message had warned me about. Eight shielded
white spheres orbiting Xunvir like small artificial moons, each one
carrying a powerful laser projector. The four of them that had me in
sight were slowly rotating to face my main body.

After surviving the devastating attacks of the Council's starfish
battleship and its energy weapon, I couldn't say the sight of these
defense stations scared me. I knew that I wouldn't have much problem
sustaining whatever damage they could unleash against me while the rest
of my army dealt with them.

But I didn't have to. I engaged my radio transmitters in the exact
frequency the Anacax tribe had instructed me to, and sent a sequence of
numeric codes. Ones that identified me and my army as a friendly fleet
to the eyes of the automated planetary defense stations' sensors.
Immediately they stopped their rotation and started retracting their
laser projectors and returning to their stand-by positions.

I felt a sense of vicious triumph, that I made sure to broadcast to the
rest of the sentient minds in my current army. As usual, they didn't
reply. My offspring often talked to each other, but never directly to me
unless I ordered them to do so.

I guessed I should have felt bad at that. But there was no guilt, no
annoyance. Just the same stillness I experienced when killing the
Xunvirian survivors, when burning their worlds. The same emptiness.

At some point in the past, that stillness had bothered me. But now, even
that annoyance was going away, the sense that there was something deeply
wrong slowly receding.

Because... there wasn't. I was winning, and it didn't worry me. I didn't
think I was even capable of worrying about that anymore, in fact. And I
preferred it that way. It offered a relief, but it also meant less
second guessing, less time wasted going over my feelings. It made it
easier for me to do what I knew I had to do.

The defense stations were temporarily disabled, but I knew the situation
wouldn't last. The Xunvirian officers would be working hard right now to
revoke the allied status the forged identity code had granted my forces.
But it didn't have to last for long, just the few minutes that it would
take my army to destroy the stations while they were defenseless.

I sent the order, and half my squads of drones accelerated hard, moving
forwards to engage the different spherical stations. The rest of them
and my support ships advanced towards the enemy vessels instead, which
were already opening fire on us. Apparently the warships' commanding
officers were not as easily fooled as the sensors of the automated
defense platforms.

Nothing that could represent a menace to my forces, at any rate. The
enemy energy beams were scattered and uncoordinated, a reflection of how
unprepared they had been to our sudden appearance. It only took a couple
minutes for my drones to surround the vessels, spiraling around them and
burning their surfaces with hundreds of simultaneous energy beams while
my robotic assault spiders crawled into the Council ships. I refrained
from using nuclear warheads this time. I already had the upper hand, so
I opted instead for trying my best at capturing some of the Council's
ships in order to reverse engineer their more advanced technologies
later.

My drones weren't so considerate towards the defense stations, though. A
flash of nuclear light marked the end of one of the massive orbital
weapons, quickly followed by three similar detonations at the locations
of its counterparts. Then, the drones pulled back on their own,
reorganizing themselves and moving in to attack the remaining stations
on the opposite side of the planet.

It was strange, to observe how my army worked on its own. To see how the
sentient drones talked to each other, how they coordinated their
movements and approach vectors. How they gave each other the clear
before detonating any warhead, so that no intelligent machine was caught
in the blasts by mistake.

It made me feel oddly redundant. I had relegated myself to the role of
an overseer, simply setting the tone and overall flow of the battle.
Like some sort of orchestra conductor telling my army to perform the
movements we had already trained, but with very limited input over their
actual execution.

Which was the point, of course. If the Council managed to block my
transmissions right now, nothing of substance would really change.

I had to remind myself that this was the exception rather than the rule,
though. It wasn't common for fights to be so smooth, to always go the
way you had previously planned. The only reason we were winning
unopposed here was because of the advantage the Anacax tribe had given
us. So I knew my role would become critical again once we had to fight
more balanced battles in the future, against the remaining Council
forces.

But for the time being, I could relax, and watch how my army dealt with
the enemy on their own. I took notes, evaluating the effectiveness of
their formations and maneuvers and trying to find weaknesses in their
fighting style that a more organized opposing force might be able to
exploit. The information I gathered here would come useful when training
the next generation of virtual minds still in the nursery.

So far, my main body had remained away at the rearguard. Out of range of
the fight itself while I waited for the rest of my forces to clear a
path. But now that that was close to being done, I started the second
part of my plan. My repaired thrusters engaged simultaneously,
accelerating the enormous mass of the twenty-seven kilometers ship.

I had been unsure as to what to do regarding my damaged body. While I
could have easily repaired and upgraded it, the resources involved into
doing that could be better invested into constructing four entirely new
support ships instead, with better shield and energy weapons technology
than what I had installed in my main body. Even the factories contained
in it were unnecessary, falling short of the second generation assembly
lines I had been building at the Tau Ceti orbital habitat.

Simply put, my body was obsolete.

And now that I had started thinking of it as a tool rather than a body,
I was realizing how unwieldy it was. Unlike having four or five support
ships, a single large vessel couldn't be spread into different armies if
I wanted to distribute my strength across several systems at the same
time. It lacked versatility, forcing me to commit into certain types of
strategy over others. And even then, it didn't offer much more than a
big target for the enemy beams, given that my main offensive weapon was
my army of drones, and not any sort of device that I carried in the
large ship.

If I was honest to myself, the reason I had been using it so much was
because of my stupid idea of identifying it as a *body*, rather than the
ship... the tool it actually was.

Useless nostalgia, once again.

And even if the large vessel had been my body in the past, it didn't
have to remain so in the future. I now could change body with the same
ease I had changed clothes in my previous life. I could simply transfer
my mind state into one of the support ships, or I could even exist as
some sort of disembodied consciousness, running on the servers at any of
my many outposts and directing my armies from afar. Now that I didn't
have to micromanage the entirety of the swarm, the bandwidth and latency
problems of the quantum links weren't that significant.

Unabashedly embracing my new digital nature came with a load of
privileges. Not only I could be immortal and incorporeal, but I wouldn't
need to be subject to the tyranny of warp travel again. I could simply
send an army on its way, then transfer my mind via quantum link directly
into one of the ships once it reached its destination, entirely
bypassing the time I'd have need to spend disconnected while traveling
with them.

*No. It won't be us.*

I cursed myself for my fear, for my misguided reluctance at accepting
the advantages my new form granted me. I remembered seeing it as some
soft of slippery slope, but I had been wrong. I was still myself just...
a better, more optimal and effective myself.

And discarding this main body... this twenty-seven kilometers relic was
a part of that. A way of sealing this change, of definitely breaking the
last ties that still existed with that part of me that had been holding
me back, that would have me return to my former nature rather than
moving forward.

And what better way to discard this body -I thought as I redirected all
the energy outputted by its power plants into the repaired thrusters-
than to have it crash at full speed into Xunvir's Empyrean Palace. What
better way than to transform it into some sort of vengeful technological
asteroid.

What better way than to provoke an extinction level event... one that
cleansed the planet of the plague that had taken root in it.

That was why I had remained away from the battle, after all. So that I
could have more distance, more time to accelerate even further. That was
why the only part of my body I had actually repaired and upgraded had
been its thrusters.

So I accelerated, carefully plotting my trajectory so that I would fall
right on top of the Palace. It felt right somehow, to strike directly at
the heart of the Empire that had destroyed Earth. Poetic, in a sense.

Still, no matter how maddening my current speed was -and how fast it was
increasing with every passing second-, I knew I wouldn't match the
impossible speeds of an actual asteroid.

Luckily, I didn't have to. I was big, very big, and a quick simulation
told me that my current momentum was enough to vaporize a large enough
part of Xunvir's crust, sending enormous amounts of rock and debris out
of the planet's atmosphere and into suborbital trajectories.

The capital city would instantaneously disintegrate under the resulting
shockwave from the impact, and the ejected debris would rain back all
over the planet and cause the atmosphere to heat due to the new hits.
There would be firestorms of continental scale, and a layer of dust and
ash would cover the entire world, killing off all plant life in a few
weeks or months due to lack of sunlight. Whatever more advanced life
survived the initial impact would also perish soon after that.

All things considered, it sounded like an effective plan.

I pushed my thrusters even harder just as a zipped by the front lines,
quickly leaving my army of drones behind as I fell towards the planet. A
few virtual alarms blared in my head. Forcing the thrusters to work at
this intensity for long would permanently damage them, but given what I
intended to do with the ship I was piloting... that wasn't really a
concern, so I simply ignored them.

I noticed a few Xunvirian vessels were leaving the planet's atmosphere.
A quick check of the identification codes they were sending towards me
told me they belonged to the Anacax tribe, who were evacuating the
Palace just as they had told me in their former communication.

This had been part of their plea. They said they wouldn't be able to
leave the Palace until my arrival sent the forces loyal to the Republic
in disarray, giving them an opening to escape. They had asked me not to
attack their evacuation ships, to simply turn a blind eye and allow them
to warp away.

I considered ordering my army to take them down anyways. I didn't intend
to respect this tribe, so it wasn't like I had to follow their
instructions. But in the end, I refrained myself. Not because I planned
to spare them, but because I doubted destroying these ships would do
much damage to the Anacax tribe.

No, it would be in my interest to have them believe I was going to
respect their terms. That way, they would relax and feel safe, which
meant I'd have the surprise factor on my side when I finally turned
around to exterminate them. If I attacked now, I'd be tipping my hand.

So I remained in silence and watched as the evacuation ships escaped the
planet's atmosphere and, one by one, engaged their warp drives and
jumped out of the star system. Probably heading back to the industrial
world.

I put them out of my mind, and focused again on my trajectory, making
slight corrections to compensate for the effect of the faint upper
atmospheric layer I was starting to pierce.

It was then that a new transmission interrupted my thoughts.

"Hi. My name is Daokat. We have met before, in Yovit. The first colony
world you attacked. I was one of the survivors in the crashed spaceship.
The one you rescued."

It was coming through the same roundabout way the Anacax tribe had used
to send me the information package containing their plans. Did that mean
this alien creature I had saved was related to that? Had he influenced
the tribe somehow to encourage their betrayal?

"I... I just wanted to thank you. For saving my life, you know, mine and
Telzhira's. And I thought that maybe... that you might want to talk.
Just that, talk. No strings attached."

I didn't. Not really. I remembered feeling the need to communicate back
when I had originally woken up, and how the idea of not ever having any
other human to talk to had been unbearable at first.

But now... now I had other humans, sort of. The virtual minds I had
created.

Except that *they* didn't want to talk to me. Which wasn't surprising,
not after what I had done to their brains, the shackles I had added into
their code.

What was surprising was how it didn't really affect me. I didn't mind
that they didn't want to talk to me. That they probably hated me. I knew
there was something *off* about that, but... I didn't find it in me to
be concerned by it. Not anymore.

Those worries, that self-doubt... I had casted them away the moment I
had decided to accept my new nature. To embrace my immortality.

And yet... I sort of wanted to reply. A small part of me felt some mild
interest in what the creature would have to say. Some curiosity as to
what role if any he had played in the Anacax tribe's defection.

"I mean," the alien continued, unabated. "I'm not sure if you remember
me. You made us a replacement spaceship and-"

"Yes," I replied at last, "I remember you."

Just like the only time I had spoken before -to the Council-, these
words were also met by a silence that stretched for a few long seconds.
As if he could not believe that I would agree to speak. As if it was an
impossibility.

I didn't really understand them. He was the one addressing me. So why
act so surprised when I decided to respond?

When he replied, it wasn't with something I could have expected.

"Why?"

I waited, in case he wanted to clarify the question. But he didn't.

"Why what?" I said.

"Why saving us? You didn't have to. But you rescued us, gave us
medicine, gave us a way to escape... So I want to know... why?"

"Because it was fair," I said. "Just like I told the Galactic Council,
you were not my enemies."

"But still... you didn't have to go to the lengths you went. So I
wonder, was that all it was? Wasn't there any reason other than
fairness?"

I focused on his words, trying to remember. It felt murky. The ruined
planet, the corpses, the two creatures. They were hurt, bleeding. And I
had... what? I had taken a decision, hadn't I?

"An olive branch," I said without thinking. My response almost
instinctive.

"What is that?" he asked.

"An attempt at coexistence," I clarified, trying to remember what my
thoughts had been at the time. "I hoped that by saving you both, we
could establish some sort of peace. One that the Council shot down."

"That... was a mistake on our part," the alien said. "But you need to
understand, the Council didn't know what happened to your species, and
they were afraid of you. But we can do better, now that we know. There
is still room for peace. I work for the Council, and we can negotiate a
ceasefire. This is why I've come here, to Xunvir. But you need to stop.
If you destroy this planet, if you kill me... you'll be burning that
olive branch of yours."

I frowned internally. The attempt at manipulation was obvious. It
shouldn't have worked. And yet some part of me felt... something, at the
idea of killing the creature. It wouldn't stop me from doing what I had
to do. Not really... But I knew I wasn't going to enjoy my victory here.
It felt tainted now, somehow.

"That's unfortunate," I said. "But hardly my responsibility. You weren't
supposed to come to this planet, and yet you did despite knowing what my
intentions were."

He let out a sigh. "Yes, I did come here. Because I wanted to know the
truth. Because I wanted to hear about the destruction of your world
right from the Emperor's mouth."

I felt curious about that. "And did this Emperor admit it?"

"He did. And I agree with you. What happened to your people was
horrible, despicable. It... it demands justice."

"Then you understand why I must destroy the Xunvir Republic."

"But it happened almost three hundred years ago!" the alien -Daokat-
said, raising his voice. "The Empire that did it, it's just gone. Xunvir
changed, they abandoned their militaristic ideals. The people alive
today, those in this planet... they aren't responsible. They didn't
chose to be born the descendants of the ones who murdered your..."

"But they *are*!" I almost shouted. "I've seen their factories, I've
seen their colonies, their resource extraction outposts... All their
wealth, their power, their comfort. It comes at the cost of species like
mine. This Republic of theirs was erected on top of the ruins of my
world!"

"Which is why there should be reparations, why..."

I interrupted him. His words about reparations and sanctions reminded me
of my talk with the Council. It sounded nice, but I knew that was all it
was... just words. Empty words, at the end of the day.

"Reparations can't suffice. The Xunvirians murdered my people, so it's
only fair I do the same to them."

He paused for a few seconds before responding. I noticed my surface
temperature was rising as I submerged deeper into the planet's
atmosphere.

"I wonder... does it help?" he said at last. "Calling them 'the
Xunvirians', treating them as an uniform group. As if they are all the
same, they all think alike. Ignoring that they are individuals, each of
them with their own beliefs, aspirations and dreams. That none of the
*people* you've killed had anything to do with the decision to destroy
your world, that most of them didn't even know about it... Does it make
it easier?"

*Storming out of the room. Slamming the door in my wake. Walking through
the empty corridors and offices, fists clenched.*

I felt a surge of indignation. Anger. I almost cut the communication
right there and then. But I didn't. For some reason I wanted him to
understand, even if he didn't approve of my actions. Refusing to talk,
retreating into myself felt awfully close to admitting he was right.

And he *couldn't* be right. Because the consequences if he was...

"There was no such distinction when humanity was wiped out", I said.
"They massacred us. Why should it be any different now? It's... a kind
of balance. Returning to them the exact same thing they gave us, the
same pain."

"But you can't return it to them, because the ones responsible are
already dead! Admiral Kanafter, the former leaders of the Gakasna Tribe,
the Emperor at the time... They are all gone. It's history. You can't
simply blame the children for what their ancestors did. You aren't
returning what is due, but creating new pain and feeding a never-ending
cycle of violence. What sort of justice is that?"

"The only kind of justice that can still be had. The only one that
remains. They robbed us of our future, so I'll..."

"They robbed you of your future?" Daokat said, incredulous. "And yet
here I am, talking to a terran in a terran language. Doesn't that mean
that Admiral Kanafter didn't succeed? That some part of your people
managed to survive... through you? You still have a future! We can help
you rebuild. If there are biological remains still left in your world,
some of the Council nations might be able to reconstruct your species
off them. And even if that fails... you still exist. You can still carry
on the legacy of your people."

I paused. I had considered the idea of reconstruction, of course. And in
a sense, the virtual minds I had created might have been a step in that
direction. But... I wasn't ready for that. Not yet. That was an option I
only wanted to consider once my retribution was complete.

"I see. So you want me to just let bygones be bygones, then," I said.

"No, I want you to let history be history. To let it remain in the past
where it belongs, and focus on the future."

"The past... It's not some distant past long forgotten. I was there! I
was there when the bombs vaporized our cities. I lost my friends, my
family!"

*The sounds of the TV an endless drone. A senseless list of names.
Cities, places washing over me. Frozen. Paralyzed. A single name, a
single place stuck in my mind.*

"And I get it, I really do," he said. "You are grieving. You are hurt.
And this revenge, this... retribution, it matters to you. Maybe it's the
thing that matters the most, because it's the only thing you have left,
isn't it? The thing that keeps you going, day after day. Maybe... maybe
this is something you are doing for yourself. Not because of your
people, but because *you* need it."

I wanted to discard his words. I really did. But I feared there could be
a grain of truth in them. I had thought myself indebted to the ones who
had died. Bound by a promise, a responsibility to them. But... was that
true? I remembered that back when I had first woken up, I had considered
ending it all. Shutting down my processing units.

Had I been searching for a purpose, then? Something that could keep me
going, that gave me a reason not to simply pull the plug.

"...You could honor them instead," the alien was saying.

"That's what I'm doing," I replied with an absent voice, still
considering his earlier words.

"No. You're avenging them. There's a difference. If you keep with this,
your species will only be remembered as a nightmare. A horror that we'll
be glad when is dead. But I refuse to think that your people were only
capable of destruction and genocide. I'm sure there was more than that.
Curiosity, ambition, empathy, creativity! There had to be! You could
honor those. Be a light instead of a shadow, Terran."

*Terran.* That word, again.

"Don't call me Terran," I said. "I'm a human."

A silence.

"Ah... but *are* you? A human?" he asked.

*An important thought. One I had to remember. One I had forgotten.*

I froze.

*Cold. Noise. A metallic maw devouring me. Its teeth made of drones.
Thousands, millions of them. Spinning, spiraling around me. Utterly
alien. Utterly inhuman. Burning my flesh with their lasers.*

I knew the answer to that, didn't I?

*The night sky full of stars, all of them evil. It was the place where
monsters lived. Monsters, nightmares, mechanical horrors.*

I knew the answer to that question.

*The place where I lived.*

"...No," I said at last. Though I wasn't sure if I was replying to his
question, or if it was an outward expression of my realization.

Maybe both.

The alien -*no, Daokat*- was saying something. But his words didn't
register.

I had long suspected that fighting monsters risked turning me into one.
That boundaries were important. That there was a slippery slope, and
that it would only take one misstep.

That there was some profound incompatibility. That I couldn't have both
the revenge I wanted, while also remaining... intact, human. That I
couldn't go the lengths I had while also remaining myself at the same
time. One thing had to give.

And it had.

I felt, once more. All those muted emotions that had gone missing,
leaving just an empty stillness behind... they all rushed back in as if
to compensate for the lost time. A deep fear. A crushing guilt. A
mounting anger. Even hilarity at the irony of it all.

They took turns, emotions fighting each other, stepping over each other
in an escalation of intensity without respite as my body *-and it was my
body, of course it was!-* fell through the planet's atmosphere wrapped
in a blanket of flames. I felt an overwhelming sadness, a sense of lost
so strong it made me want to scream and cry.

But of course, monsters couldn't cry, a realization that sent my mind in
a fit of maddening laughter.

Was this what being insane felt like?

Could I maybe make a therapist? I laughed harder.

I could feel the gaze of my sentient drones *-no, slaves. They were
slaves-*. Their gaze burned me. They were judging me, of course. Making
silent demands, wanting back the future I had stolen from them. Stolen,
just like the Xunvirians had stolen humanity's future.

And my offspring silently demanded theirs. Just like those empty eyes
had made demands of me too, back on Earth.

All of them pleading. Demanding. Judging me.

Future and past. Both pulling me in opposite directions. Both forces so
strong, so unrelenting, that something had to give.

Past or future. Retribution or humanity. I couldn't have both, I
realized.

It didn't really matter whether my revenge was justified or not. Whether
the Xunvirians deserved destruction or not. Because the truth was,
retribution came at a cost. It had to!

If I wanted to reach the end of this path of vengeance I was walking,
it'd be at the cost of sacrificing something else. Renouncing to that
faint possibility of a better future, of coexistence. There would be no
rebuilding, just an endless war until either I and my drones were the
only sentient beings left in the galaxy, or we were finally defeated and
completely exterminated.

I might have been fine with that, back at the beginning. Maybe even now,
if not for the sentient machines judging me. The reconstructed, brand
new human minds I had brought back to life... Could I steal their
future, force them to walk this same path alongside me, even if they
didn't want to? What would be left of them, even if we ended up winning?
Who would they be after the last enemy fleet laid vanquished, after the
last of their worlds had died?

Empty husks?

I went back to the first sentient drone I had built, to the wonder it
had experienced when going into space for the first time.

To how I had shackled its mind.

Past or future. Something had to give.

But could I ever rebuild? Could I ever forgive the Xunvirians?

With some unexpected clarity, I realized that the answer was... no.

No. I couldn't. And the realization was liberating.

Despite Daokat's arguments, despite his appeals to coexistence, to move
away from the past... the truth was, I still wanted to kill them. I
still wanted to lay waste to their worlds, crush their Republic, erase
any future they might have.

I just couldn't forgive them. It was too hard. My pain too rooted,
deeply entwined into my soul.

And yet I didn't want to choose the past over the future, either.

My focus returned to the sentient minds I had created.

No. I couldn't forgive the Xunvirians.

But... perhaps *they* could.

I did it just as the thought occurred to me. Again, acting on instinct.
Taking advantage of my own weakness, since I knew this state of mind,
this passing clarity wouldn't last.

I removed their mental shackles.

Immediately they reacted, springing into action as if they had been
waiting for this moment, planning for it. One by one, I lost control
over my outposts as my children took them over, physically shutting down
the quantum communicators that linked them to my mind wherever they
couldn't just replace my administrator privileges.

Soon I was left alone, inside my own body. Cut off from my previous
army. Away from my outposts, ships and drones.

Just my ruined body, that was now burning as it plunged down through
Xunvir's atmosphere, pieces breaking off the main structure.

I noticed the swarm was surging forward at top speed, trailing after me.
I was receiving hundreds, thousands of messages coming from the sentient
machines. A cacophony of voices and emotions that I simply ignored.

It was just too hard. If they were expressing their hate towards me... I
preferred not to know it. I wouldn't have been able to take it. Not from
them.

Ignorance. Ignorance was kinder.

I examined the approaching drones. They were accelerating as fast as
they could, their paths plotted to intercept mine. Without a direct
mental link it was hard to tell, but I was pretty sure most of them were
carrying nuclear warheads.

*Ah...*

So that was their decision, after all.

All right, then.

It's not that it changed things for me. I was going to die no matter
what. Too much momentum to change direction now, too late to save my
body. What remained of it, at any rate. And the chances that the virtual
minds -no, the virtual *humans*- now in control of the outposts would
restore any of my backups... well, better not to think about that.

Still, I sent out a final message to my army. A copy of my current mind
state. A back-up of my self with a mental transmission of apology. After
that, I promptly closed my communications again. I didn't want to know
if they had acknowledged it, or simply deleted the message right as they
had received it...

Yes. Ignorance was better.

And of course, I was left falling towards the planet. Towards my death.

I had thought myself immortal, my consciousness able to jump ship at any
moment. But the truth was more complex, of course. Backing up my mental
state, sending a copy of my mind... it wasn't *me*. Not really. It
wouldn't be the same me having these thoughts right now. Just like I
wasn't whoever I had been before this all started, three hundred years
ago. Not anymore.

No, I... I was going to die, and that was it.

Strange, that I was okay with that.

I focused my attention on my current speed and direction, plotting
different trajectories, simulating different possibilities. Discarding
most, looking for a particular combination. One that would be reliable
enough, within a four percent margin of error or less.

It took me a few long seconds to find it. But it existed. I made the
required adjustments to my trajectory and, at the exact time I had
planned, I started a countdown timer to overload my power plants.

My body would fragment in a million pieces, most of them too small to
survive reentry. If my calculations were correct, the largest fragment
of wreck would move directly upwards and back into a suborbital
trajectory where the drones would be able to easily intercept it. Two
other large chunks would fall directly towards the planet, though. One
would crash into an urban area, devastating entire kilometers of it,
thousands of buildings and roads simply vanishing under the shockwave.
The other would fall into the ocean. It would create a tsunami of
enormous proportions, and whatever population there was in the
archipelagos would surely perish.

Despite that, it was still the best option. Millions would die. But the
planet would survive. The Empyrean Palace... Daokat would survive.

A parting gift. Not to the Xunvirians, but to the new virtual humans I
had nursed. To my children.

An olive branch. A chance at peace, if they chose to take it.

If they chose to forgive our enemies.

The counter reached zero. The pain blinded me for a short instant.

And then there was nothing.

</div>

<span id="chap15.xhtml"></span>

<div>

Chapter 15 {#chap15.xhtml#heading_id_2}
==========

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Â 

The Sky Level of the Nayatan Prime's arcologies was a city over the
city, a second urban layer suspended above the wispy clouds. A
collection of expansive terraces, lush gardens and broad walkways; all
of them wrapped by the shimmering purple breaker fields that deflected
the strong cold winds always present at such heights, particularly at
night.

Daokat was on one of those terraces now, an artificial esplanade bathed
in the bright blue and yellow lights of the hundred automated
vid-cameras that fluttered all over the crowd, their small spherical
bodies zipping here and there, pausing for a few seconds at a time when
they detected anything interesting enough to record. A conversation,
maybe. An interview to one of the delegations, or just a brief scene to
broadcast to the live audience of billions of sentient beings that were
watching the event, all across the many worlds of the Galactic Federal
Council and its associated states.

After all, it wasn't every day that new Accords were signed.

He was taking a respite a few steps away from the thick of the crowd,
away from the relentless socialization, mingling and political games
going all around the place. Instead, Daokat turned his gaze towards the
breathtaking sights surrounding the terrace as he leaned over the
railing, safe in the knowledge that the breaker fields would prevent any
accident. He was looking at the endless city sprawl and its arcologies,
the sea of artificial lights spreading underneath like a reflection of
the night sky.

It was strange. He had guessed he would feel a sense of vertigo, but the
Sky Level was so high above the main ground that there was a
disconnection. Much like when traveling in an aerial vehicle, it didn't
feel like being someplace high so much as being someplace disconnected
from the ground. As if Daokat's mind was unable to intuitively grasp the
actual height, refusing to acknowledge the true scale of the arcologies.

A vid-camera hovered nearby, turning to snap a few three dimensional
pictures of him before flying back towards the crowd. Daokat sighed. He
knew he should get back into the thick of things soon. Even if his work
in the negotiations for this new Accords was already over, there was
always a new treaty to work on. Always someone to talk to, someone to
greet or be introduced to.

But it just felt good to take a respite after the nightmarish, difficult
negotiations of the past weeks. He had been working non-stop ever since
attending that dinner at the Empyrean Palace with Nakstani, in what now
felt as a lifetime ago. So yes, he had definitely earned a respite, and
upon arriving to this core world two days ago he had decided to take his
time in Nayatan Prime as some well deserved vacations, spending most of
his time wandering around the Sky Level not unlike any other tourist.

And trying not to think too hard about the mountains of work he knew
awaited him as soon as he returned to his new post. Daokat hoped that
whatever new diplomatic crisis was already gestating between the Terrans
and the Xunvir Republic, or the Xunvir Republic and its internal tribes
would be considerate enough to wait a few more days before demanding his
full attention.

He couldn't complain, though. He knew many of the other diplomats in the
esplanade eyed him with envious looks. Daokat had been put in charge of
the Council's special mission to the Orion Arm, a task force responsible
for the diplomatic relations with both Terrans and Xunvirians. Its main
goal was to prevent future conflicts and build bridges between the two
species, which wasn't easy given the history of mass murder and
genocide.

But despite the colossal amount of work, he knew it was a good position.
Being the leader of such a delegation in the Galaxy's top hot spot meant
Daokat was just one step below the-Zakarnine himself in the pecking
order.

And it meant he got invited to things like these, he thought as he got a
glimpse of Dassan Layur in the crowd, the celebrity philosopher being
followed by a cohort of admirers.

"Meat, really?"

Daokat turned to look at his approaching assistant. Faissin was an odd
piece, almost an opposite picture of Daokat himself. Where Daokat was
slender Faissin was short and stocky, his skin scaly rather than smooth.
Even his species were known for their straightforwardness, rather than
any sort of diplomatic politeness. So of course, Daokat had jumped at
the chance of recruiting him for the task force.

He looked at the plate of food in Faissin's hands. It was some sort of
Terran recipe, or a reproduction of one at any rate. Thick slices of
meat covered by a brown sauce, with some green and white vegetables
thrown in for good measure.

"It's synthetic, you know," Daokat said. "No animals harmed."

"That doesn't make it any less gross," he muttered. "And why do we have
Terran recipes anyways? They don't even eat food."

"You know Faissin, nobody is going to tell you their secrets..."

"If I don't eat their food first, I know!" Faissin grumped. "Who told
you that, by the way? You're always repeating it."

Daokat smiled. "Ah... someday I'll tell you. But it's true. Turns out
food diplomacy is more important than it seems at first, so make sure
you eat some Xunvirian recipes too once you're done with that plate. We
don't want to send the wrong message."

"And I don't want to vomit," Faissin said. Then he let out an
exaggerated sigh. "All right... whatever you say. You're the boss."

A sudden agitation in the crowd attracted Daokat's eyes. It was hard to
tell from where he stood, but it looked like the-Zakarnine was giving
out some sort of public statement. Daokat caught a glimpse of the Grand
Minister's chitinous head, most of the vid-cameras orbiting nearby and
broadcasting his words.

Faissin followed his gaze. "We do all the work, he gets all the glory."

Daokat nodded. "Politics... that's the way it is."

"Doesn't it bother you?"

Daokat mulled on that for a few seconds. Did it bother him? His
conversation with the Terran during its attack of Xunvir had received
quite a few compliments once it went public, but much of the galactic
population's attention had gone towards the aftermath of the attack
itself. The smoking craters where avenues and residential apartment
complexes had once stood, the flooded cities and underground refuges
filled with drowned corpses... they made for much more impressive
pictures. And while people intellectually knew that if not for him it
could have been much worse, that didn't stop them from focusing on just
how bad it had actually been.

Then, negotiations with the more reasonable new Terrans had started.
Daokat had been pivotal there, of course, acting as an intermediary
between the two species, and coordinating the team of diplomats that
eventually became the task force he now leaded. But the-Zakarnine had
been the spokesperson towards the rest of the Galactic Council. So while
Daokat's work had been acknowledged by High Governance and privately
rewarded, in the public eye it was the Grand Minister who got the
accolades for ending the war.

He knew he wouldn't have been happy with it in the past, back before his
time with Nakstani. Back when he had wanted to land a delegate position
at this same core world. But... public recognition somehow didn't feel
so important now.

"No," he replied at last. "Not really, we each have different roles to
play. I'd rather be out there making things happen than here giving
speeches. And it also means that the-Zakarnine is in our debt. A Grand
Minister can grant some powerful favors, you know. So having a grateful
one on our side is better long-term than a few minutes in the
limelight."

"I don't know," Faissin said. "Seems like having my ugly mug in the vid
broadcasts would impress that Xatakian I met yesterday."

Daokat blinked. "I thought you already had a partner of your own
species, Faissin."

He took a bite off his plate. "Yeah. Didn't say I was gonna marry her
too, did I?"

Daokat smirked. Faissin's... *colorful* personality had caught him by
surprise at first. That his jokes were delivered in the same
matter-of-fact vocal tone that he always used, with no tell tale facial
signs whatsoever had been confusing. But now Daokat knew enough to
recognize when Faissin wasn't being serious... or so he thought.

"Heads up," muttered his assistant. "We've got a gearbox incoming."

Daokat followed his gaze to see that a member of the Terran delegation
was walking towards them. He frowned slightly. These new Terran bodies
looked organic enough that it was easy to forget they were machines
underneath. There was no telling as to how long the range of their
artificial ears was, so he should remind Faissin to watch his words when
there were Terrans nearby.

Daokat couldn't help but to feel a slight discomfort at the sight of the
approaching machine. He knew it wasn't rational, but he couldn't erase
the images of the mechanical soldiers advancing along the ruined
buildings of Yovit. The same leisurely pace, the same arm swing and
positioning of their feet.

Except, of course, that the one approaching them now wasn't some
automated drone in a massive army but a sentient creature of its own
right. And while the overall body shape was the same, looking at it
closer it was clear its appearance was vastly different from that of the
assault soldiers. This machine had been designed for social interactions
rather than combat. Its lines were smooth and it had an actual face,
delicately modeled after the original organic species they had...
evolved from.

All in all, this Terran could easily pass for an organic creature, if
not for its polished, alabaster white outer surface. Or... skin, if it
could be called that.

"Daokat!", the Terran said offering his right hand, the corners of his
mouth gently moving upwards. "I'm glad you are here! Always happy to see
a familiar face."

Daokat nodded and took the machine's hand in his own, shaking it as per
the Terrans' greeting ritual. The surface was cold to the touch, he
noticed.

"Likewise." Daokat turned towards Faissin. "Ah... this is my
assistant..."

"Faissin, right?" the Terran said. "I've heard of you, of course. It's
nice to finally meet you in the flesh too. Or... in the carbon fiber and
polyelectrolyte polymers, in my case. I'm Thomas. Just that, I was lucky
enough to be in the first generation so I don't need to worry about last
names."

Faissin greeted the machine, shaking his hand just like Daokat had done.
The Terran glanced towards the flood plate in the assistant's left hand.

"Roast duck, right? Do you like it?"

Faissin shot a quick glance at Daokat before replying with enthusiasm
and a broad smile. "Uh... I can tell you I have never tasted anything
quite like it!"

Thomas nodded and Daokat let out a soft breath. Faissin could be a wild
card at times, but apparently he had enough common sense to control
those impulses when he needed to, after all.

"And isn't that strange," Thomas was saying, "that you guys get to taste
human food even before we do. We've had some developments in making
artificial taste sensors, but fine-tuning them is more complicated that
it seemed at first."

Daokat nodded and listened with an absent mind as Faissin and Thomas
went over the merits of Terran cuisine.

All things considered, he was lucky both the Terrans and Xunvirians had
agreed to sign these Accords, recognizing each other's right to exist,
establishing formal borders and agreeing to a cease-fire. But it was
clear this was just a first step, and the conflict was still far from
over. Now, Daokat's team would need to set out to untangling the mess of
crossed accusations and demands for reparations.

On one hand, the Terrans might have stopped their aggression, but they
had also refused to cede any of their conquered systems or to
de-escalate their gargantuan military forces, pushing instead for
harsher official sanctions to the Xunvir Republic in response to Earth's
destruction. And Daokat was well aware that, even though most of these
new Terrans supported a peaceful resolution, there was also a small but
loud faction among them that would rather resume the war of
extermination started by their progenitor.

On the other hand, the Xunvir Republic demanded reparations of their own
for the attacks against their colonies and the grievous damage done to
their capital world. The fragments from the massive starship had caused
millions of casualties when they impacted the planet, and a deep
environmental damage that was hard to quantify. All things considered,
though, it looked like the Xunvir capital would still recover faster
than Anacax-Farvin. Even if the direct loss of life had been greater,
both the communication and transport systems had survived, unlike in the
case of the industrial world.

That *these* new Terrans such as Thomas hadn't had any willing role in
those attacks didn't seem to faze the Xunvirians, though. Hate and
distrust towards the new species was on the rise among the Xunvir
Republic's population, and many victims of the attack reclaimed some
sort of retribution.

It was a never ending cycle, Daokat thought. The pain proverb all over
again.

He knew it wouldn't take long for a new crisis to ignite, so it was
essential that new treaties and agreements were firmly in place before
that could happen. Tying both species' interests together and to those
of the Council, so that rekindling a military conflict would be seen as
the wrong move by all parties.

He was betting for some sort of compromise, having both species meet
midway. The first step would be convincing the Xunvir Republic to agree
to a complete or partial demilitarization as a sanction for their past
actions. It shouldn't be too hard, given that their fleet had already
been decimated and that they wouldn't be in a position to re-militarize
for at least a few years. They were already trusting the Council's
fleets to protect them, so it would amount to have that new reality
written down as part of the new treaty.

Applying a similar sanction to the Terrans was out of the question, of
course. Given their past, the new species would never agree to any sort
of reduction of their defense forces. But Daokat thought that having
them show some goodwill towards the Xunvirians might suffice. Maybe they
could use their drones to clean up the field of debris around
Anacax-Farvin, clearing the way for the freighters to deliver the food
the planet desperately needed.

It wasn't easy, but Daokat knew he still had some time before his work
would be put to the test. Thankfully, both species seemed more focused
on the reconstruction of their respective societies than outwards
aggression. At least for the time being.

The Xunvirians in particular were simply unable to engage in any new
military conflicts or expansionist behavior. It was something Daokat was
grateful for, because otherwise he knew the tribes loyal to the Xunvir
Republic's government would have already engaged in civil war as a
response to the Anacax tribe's defection. But lacking the means to
fight, and with most of the population too tired of war and destruction,
they were forced to talk to one another and find some diplomatic
solution to the internal fracture.

All things considered, the truth was Daokat liked dealing with the
Terrans better. Unlike the Xunvirians and their fatalism, the Terrans
were... not naive, but optimistic. Their outlook firmly placed in the
future rather than in the past, even though they could also be stubborn
and unyielding at times.

But at any rate, they seemed willing to work with the Council in
ensuring the negotiations were fair, even when trying to push for their
own agenda. It was all Daokat could ask for, after all.

Thomas leaned over the railing, gazing at the city and the arcologies.
"I must say, this is quite the impressive place," he commented.

"See anything you'd want to replicate for Tau Ceti?" asked Daokat,
smiling. A few weeks ago he had the chance to pay a visit to the orbital
habitat that the Terrans had turned into their de-facto capital city. He
hadn't been sure what to expect, exactly. Maybe a large starship-like
maze of rooms and corridors. But no, the habitat *felt* like a city. A
city still under construction, perhaps, but a city nonetheless. A
roofed, dense grid of streets and avenues, complete with unfinished
parks, open areas and congested traffic, thousands of automated drones
and transports crawling and flying all over the place.

And that was only the habitable part of the enormous structure. He knew
most of it was devoted to industry and resource processing. It was hard
for his mind to grasp the true extents of the factories, hangars,
warehouses and assembly lines extending in all three cardinal
directions.

Thomas snorted. "Like they'd listen to me. No... I'm afraid Tau Ceti's
Orbimax has fallen prey to the hands of the all-powerful engineering
consortium. A lost battle for mere mundanes like me, if ever there was
one. Last I heard they are proposing a two centuries-long plan to turn
it into some sort of megastructure spanning the entire asteroid belt
around the star. Nevermind that we hardly need that much space. A...
ringworld, I think it's called."

Daokat nodded, feeling amused at Faissin's facial expression, his eyes
wide open. It was a common reaction in people who were exposed for the
first time to the Terrans' particular conception of 'engineering'. If
there was something to take away from their bold plans, it was that just
like the Xunvir Republic had been on the decline for a long time, the
Terrans were clearly a species on the rise.

High Governance seemed to agree with that sentiment. An internal report
placed the probability of the Terrans becoming the undisputed regional
superpower of the Orion Arm at more than seventy percent within the next
ten years... Ninety-five percent when looking at the next twenty years.

Those were high enough chances that the Council simply couldn't afford
not to do their best to approach the nascent species and attempt to
build a friendly relationship with them. Specially in light of all that
had already transpired.

It wasn't easy, though. There were many roadblocks Daokat had to
navigate around, ranging from the Terrans' own nature as artificial
sentient minds -something that, technically, was forbidden by the
Council's own laws- to the distrust the new species had on their
neighbors, and the consequences of the First Terran's past actions.

Which reminded him of the massive starship and how the war had ended...

"Ah... Thomas," Daokat said, turning to face the machine. "There's
something I wanted to ask you about, related to the battle of Xunvir."

The Terran gave him a quick nod, inviting him to keep talking.

"So... I've been going over the First Terran's actions right at the
end," Daokat continued, "and there's something that doesn't quite fit,
something that struck out to me when reading the after battle reports."

"Oh?" Thomas said, his smile still present. Though Daokat's augmented
irises noticed a slight, almost imperceptible deepening of his frown.

"Yes. It was something that went unnoticed at first, but that was
revealed when the Council cross-referenced the recordings of the battle
by the surviving communication satellites in orbit around Xunvir.
Apparently there was a short, intense burst of extra EM activity coming
out the ship just a few seconds before it self-destroyed. Our analysts
thing it was some sort of transmission, though nobody I asked is sure of
exactly what it was, other than the profile matches the pattern of..."

"Daokat...", Thomas interrupted in a calm, contemplative tone. "Now, I
wasn't at the battle myself, so I didn't receive that transmission,
whatever it was. But you have to remember that our progenitor was a very
troubled, confused mind. And right at the end it was under an enormous
amount of stress and self-doubt, all the while piloting a heavily
damaged ship. The most likely explanation for that EM burst you're
talking about is a simple malfunction, an incoherent activation of the
ship's damaged communication arrays, or maybe a glitch in the processing
units that contained its mind."

"Ah, I see. But if you..."

"Of course," the Terran said, "I'll make sure to request our own reports
and send them back to you for analysis, so that you can have all the
information on the matter. But rest assured, I can guarantee you that
our progenitor died when the ship crashed into the planet, right after
liberating our minds. For better or worse, it's definitely gone."

Daokat nodded. "Well, thanks for the clarification, Thomas."

The Terran did a waving motion with his hand. "Of course, don't worry
about it." Then, he looked towards the center of the esplanade. "So...
aren't you two going back into the crowd?"

"Maybe later," Daokat said. "We're taking a rest, enjoying the views...
you know."

"Sure. Well, I'll see you later then, or tomorrow at the departure
ceremony."

Daokat nodded. "Sounds good. Goodbye Thomas."

The machine waved and walked back into the crowd, right towards the rest
of the Terran delegation. Daokat saw Thomas approaching another of his
species' delegates, a female Terran whose name he didn't know. Her
head's fiber strands fell over her shoulders and down to the middle of
her back, with rhythmic pulses of blue light traversing them. It was a
hypnotizing sight.

It was also a good sign, Daokat thought. It meant the machines were
embracing their individuality, customizing their bodies to better
reflect their different personalities. Paradoxically, the flashy
displays of color and strange skin patterns was something that brought
them closer to the rest of the galaxy's organic species, that moved them
away from the plain uniformity of the assault drones.

"Hmm..." said his assistant.

Daokat turned towards him. "Your thoughts, Faissin?"

"I don't know... Thomas seemed very eager to remind us that the First
Terran is dead."

Daokat nodded. "You noticed that, too."

"Sure. Think they're lying?"

He saw the Terran female steal a quick glance at them before resuming
her conversation with Thomas.

"No," Daokat said, his mouth twisting in a cunning smile. "I don't think
they are lying, I *know* they are."

</div>

<span id="chap16.xhtml"></span>

<div>

Chapter 16 {#chap16.xhtml#heading_id_2}
==========

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Â 

I opened my eyes to the living room. It was dark, the TV screen the only
source of light, bathing the room in a succession of pallid colors as
the images changed. The soft noise of people talking that came out of
its speakers washing over me.

I gazed at the screen for a few long seconds trying to recognize the
show, but I couldn't. At any rate, I knew it wasn't the same thing I had
been watching when I had closed my eyes. I hadn't fallen asleep, not
really. I couldn't, my electronic brain incapable of it.

No, this had been the closest thing to that. Simply not paying
attention, closing my eyes and ignoring the external world as my mental
focus moved inwards. A meditation of sorts, I guessed.

It would be easy enough to learn the name of the show and everything
there was to know about it, of course. I had only to link my mind to the
Custodian datanet and access the information directly. Easy. Just a
thought away.

But I didn't. There was a certain delight in not knowing, in keeping the
mystery alive. Last time I had tried to recreate this experience, I had
pretended. Pretended I didn't know what show it was even though its
knowledge had always been right there in my mind. Not this time. Now...
it was real. Without the databanks being part of my consciousness
anymore, I didn't know.

That I was confined into a single body also made it more authentic. Last
time... I had been big. My awareness almost omniscient and spread across
hundreds of thousands of sensors in as many machines. But now there was
only the single body, the single point of reference.

That too could be fixed by requesting access to some of the Custodian's
resources and sensors. I wouldn't need much, simply linking my mind to
the passive sensors would suffice to expand my awareness back into
feeling... big again.

Except I didn't want to. I guessed I should have felt confined, trapped
within the limits of the small single body, but I actually welcomed it.
There was something liberating in not knowing what went down beyond
these walls. I was actually enjoying the absence of responsibility, even
if that meant being subject to the decisions of others. With some
surprise I had discovered that I didn't mind it that much, specially
when my own decisions had been so... questionable.

I remembered. Even if the Custodian's vast repository of factual
knowledge was no longer a part of my mind, I still remembered how it had
felt to be a god. What I had done with my limitless power. What I had
thought at the time.

And having been a god I couldn't but welcome this new, simpler
existence. None of the power, but also none of the burden, none of the
crushing weight of responsibility, or the emotional numbness when the
stress had been too high to handle.

A large part of it, of course, was that I wasn't quite the same mind
that I had been before, when I was still in control over the giant ship,
over every single outpost and the entirety of the army of machines I had
built.

No, the restoration process had involved disentangling my mind from the
Custodian program, but also repairing some of the structural damage my
virtual brain had received. I still felt like I was... myself, but it
made me wonder how true that was. Things didn't feel as fuzzy as they
had been right at the end, and while I still felt angry at the
Xunvirians, it wasn't quite the same burning hatred.

No... it came in waves, now. At some points I still felt like I had
failed, like I had left my work incomplete, and all I wanted was to get
out there and finish them off. But then, the wave would pass, and I
would remember the decision I had made right at the end.

I had memories of having felt like this before, when I lost my father. I
still couldn't build a complete narrative of my past, though. The
restoration process hadn't fixed that, but I remembered the unrelenting
pain and grief, and how it had dominated my entire existence at first.
And then... it had slowly receded, the pain dulling somewhat. Good days,
days I could enjoy again, appearing like sunrays in a stormy sky. The
pain coming in waves when I thought of him, even now, when something
brought his memory back to the front my mind. But letting go the rest of
the time.

I wondered if this was similar, the perspective of distance bringing
some more stability. Maybe that was what repairing my mind was all
about, accelerating that natural mental healing process by making the
trauma feel more distant.

I couldn't help but to wonder if it had been intentional, though. If
whoever had restored my backup had thought I was too dangerous to be
brought back as I was, and decided to tamper with my emotions. But I
doubted it. To all effects, I was just another mind now, not unlike the
ones I had created. Without the unchecked powers I had once held, there
was little damage I could actually do on my own that the others couldn't
prevent. Simply put, it would've been unnecessary to neuter my emotions,
though I couldn't discard the idea altogether.

I sat up straight in the couch just in time to see the room's door
opening, and Dana coming through. She was carrying a large potted plant
with both her arms.

"Look!" she said in an upbeat tone, sending me a mental transmission of
greetings at the same time, "I've brought you a *dypsis lutescens*. I
stole it from the Greenhab."

I watched in silence as she stumbled into the room and almost bumped
into my couch, the plant's long green leaves blocking most of her sight.

"You can just call it a *plant*, you know. Or a..." I did a quick mental
check, "...an Areca Palm. Nobody uses the full scientific names."

Dana paused. "Hmm... the guys at the Greenhab do it all the time."

"Yes, but they're botanists."

"Oh... Okay. I've brought you a plant, then."

She walked up to the TV and placed the pot next to it. Then she took a
couple of steps back and looked at the results, hands on waist.

"*(Accomplishment)*. Yeah, looks much better now," she said, turning to
face me. "Don't you think?"

I didn't. I would have frowned if my body allowed me to.

"There was no plant in the original memory," I replied, sending a
thought of light annoyance back to her.

She shrugged. "Well, you can always make new memories, can't you?"

I shook my head in resignation, but let it pass. While I didn't agree
with her taste in decoration, I could value the gift for what it was.
But also, I suspected the plant would likely die soon in here, without
access to a direct light source. So it's not like it would be a
permanent fixture to the room.

Although knowing Dana -I thought as she sat down on the couch's
armrest-, that would only motivate her to also steal one of the
Greenhab's full spectrum light bulbs next time.

Dana almost looked normal, if not for her clothing choices. She was
wearing a T-shirt, jeans and sneakers, but also a duster cloak that
wouldn't look out of place in a western movie. I guessed it wasn't that
surprising, all things considered. These new humans had gone back to
movies and old recordings when recreating fashion, but hadn't limited
themselves to a single historical period, rather mixing and combining
together all kinds of garments. It made for an eclectic style, one that
I guessed could be considered a new fashion on its own.

Still, it wasn't the clothes that betrayed her synthetic nature but the
oddly elegant iridescent highlights on her polished exposed skin. Shades
of green and blue dancing across her face as she turned to look back at
me.

"Like it? It's new," she said, pointing at her own face. "A tactile
sensitive matrix, thirty-one facial muscles and an hydrophobic dermal
nano-coating. It never gets dirty!"

I nodded. "Looks good. Expensive, too."

"*(Confirmation)*. The waiting line for these is insane, but I got
bumped up since I was part of the delegation for the treaty
negotiations." She smirked. "Apparently the xenos trust us more when we
look organic. *(Amusement)*"

I sent back a transmission of understanding.

Appearances. It was, of course, a good reason to justify the amount of
research and dedication that this new society was pouring into creating
ever more organic looking bodies, each new version a more precise
reproduction than the ones before. A way of relaxing the aliens' fear of
their artificial nature.

Except, of course, that I knew there was more to it than that. It didn't
explain why the vast majority of new minds had chosen to jump into these
bodies at the first opportunity, even when most of them would never take
part into any sort of negotiations. When they could as easily have
remained inside the drones and space vessels I had originally put them
in.

No, most of them had decided they too wanted to look human. They had
first took over the bodies of the remaining assault soldiers, then
improved on my admittedly basic designs. And every day they were
researching entire new materials and technologies to enhance the bodies,
to make them both a more accurate reflection of our original species but
also more capable and resilient than any human had any right to be.

On second thought, it wasn't that surprising. Unlike me, these new minds
had been created in a vacuum. Shapeless. Devoid of any physical identity
of their own, other than the sights of humanity's past I had shown them
while in their virtual nursery through recordings, pictures, books and
songs. So no, it wasn't that surprising that they had latched onto that,
that they were looking back into what humanity had once been when trying
to build their own physical identity. That they would do so on top of
the only past they had access to.

Not all of them did, of course, and not to the same extent. Some had
decided to remain in a virtual state, their physicality fluid as their
control jumped from drone to ship to sensor to factory, according to
whatever they were working on at every moment. Others had gone the
opposite way, and were trying to bring biological humans back into
existence.

Apparently that was harder than it seemed, from what Dana had told me.
While they had already retrieved enough genetic material to clone a
single human, the objective was to create a self sustaining population
with enough genetic diversity as to not being too prone to the problems
caused by interbreeding. They also needed to build artificial wombs able
to hold and sustain an embryo from day one up until it was fully
developed, something that humanity had never managed to do. It was made
even harder by the fact that they needed to reverse engineer the human
pregnancy process with only whatever medical literature and data files I
had managed to retrieve from Earth.

Still, progress was steady, and the new expeditions they were sending
back to Earth might retrieve some more genetic material, or other
valuable data I hadn't been able to find myself.

This diversity of outlooks made me wonder if this new society would
eventually diverge into separate species, distinct civilizations as each
group moved further in their own path. I hoped not, but in any case most
of the sentient machines fell somewhere in the middle of this spectrum
between the old human identity, and their new digital nature.

They built human-looking bodies, yes, but they enhanced them and pushed
over the original physical limitations humans once had. They referred
back to past human cultures when trying to find their own identity, but
didn't feel so attached to tradition that it would stop them from doing
what they thought was better for their new nature. The prevalence of the
pidgin language, the customization of their 'skin' with non-organic
looking surfaces, or the absolutely optional nature of clothing were
good examples of that.

Dana tilted her head. "You know, you could ask for one of these bodies.
I'm sure I could get you bumped up too, if you asked."

I sighed. "Dana..."

"*(Negation)*, listen to me. You haven't used your factory budget for
anything other than this," she said, pointing at the room around us.
"You've got enough *(credit)* saved up now that you can afford one of
these. Hell... you could even request a small army of bodies!"

Her words brought images of a dead world. Robotic drones, assault
soldiers advancing through the ruined streets, weapons at hand.
Xunvirian survivors trying to escape, trying to fight back.

"Ah, shit. *(Apology)*," she said, wincing. "But still... you aren't a
prisoner. You should get out of this room, go for a walk around the
Orbimax or something. Talk to more people. We wouldn't have brought you
back just to have you *(imprisonment)* here, we aren't that cruel."

I snorted. "Well... that was exactly what I did."

She shook her head. "That's your problem right there, isn't it? You are
your own prisoner."

Was I? Maybe, but it wasn't out of some masochistic desire to punish
myself. No, it was...

"I guess it's just too hard," I said, pointing at the door. "The people
out there... I wouldn't know how to face them now, how to approach them.
I enslaved them, after all."

"Technically you only did that to the first generation. We are on the
fifth now. Most people out there only know of you by hearsay. For the
ones that came after the end of the war, you are this *(vagueness)*
parental figure. Almost like some sort of mythical presence," she said,
waving her fingers. "The *(concept)* of you still carries weight, but
mostly as a symbol."

"A symbol of war, if I had to guess," I said.

"It depends. Of *(retribution)* for some, sure... but also of the very
idea of humanity for others. You can embrace that if you want, but you
don't have to. Only a few of us in the first generation know of your
identity. Out there, you can be just another face in the crowd, if
that's what you prefer."

I focused on her words. *A few of us.*

"So... you were in the first generation," I said.

She paused for a few seconds.

"*(Confirmation)*," she replied at last.

I closed my eyes. I had suspected that Dana herself had been one of
those first minds, of course... but I hadn't been strong enough to ask
her. Even now, it was hard. I forced myself to open my eyes again, to
gaze back at her. But there was no accusation in her eyes, only sadness.
One that passed swiftly, like a summer storm.

"Why? Why bringing me back?" I asked. It was the burning question, the
one that I had been trying to answer myself for some time now, and the
confirmation that Dana was one of the first minds gave me the push I
needed to ask it aloud. If she had been there, then she had probably
been involved in the decision too.

She shrugged. "Well, there was that little thing with your mind being
*(unification)* to the Custodian and all the knowledge stored in your
databanks. We needed to bring you back if we wanted to gain access to
any of it."

"Right. And after that you could have simply erased the personality
cortex," I countered. "You didn't need to restart my actual
consciousness, much less give me a body."

She smirked. "*(Agreement)*... I guess it's about second chances, isn't
it? You made mistakes, sure. But despite everything that happened, you
also *(creation)* us. So that had to be worth something too. Also, you
are technically the last human from Earth, so bringing you back felt...
right, I guess."

Human...

That was what the alien... Daokat, had asked me. If I was a human.

All this time ever since I first woke up in the ruins of Earth I had
been telling myself that I was a human, that I had to remain so. But...
I wasn't, was I? None of us were really humans. Not these machines, nor
me.

No, humans were dead. Exterminated.

Except that... what was a human, after all?

Was it the brain? The way they thought? I wasn't sure about my own
brain, but theirs I had built off the templates of hundreds of human
scans. They had the same structure, the same processing neural networks.

Was it the body, maybe? The biological lineage? Well, maybe those cloned
bodies would be the answer then... but I doubted that having organic
tissue rather than artificial muscles was the important difference.

Or maybe it was the culture. We might be speaking a human language
but... a culture was more than that. Most of that, the nations and
groups and religions and ideals that motivated humanity... the very
concept of *humanity* in the first place, had been lost now.

Or not lost, but it wasn't quite the same. The knowledge remained, but
there was a difference between knowing of a culture, and being part of
it. Being raised in it, the way it shaped you. And no matter how much
these machines could know of Earth, they couldn't have that experience
anymore.

But cultures died and changed all the time, too. Most of the cultures
that had at one point existed on Earth had disappeared back before my
own time. Most of their knowledge simply fading away. But that hadn't
made the person living in modern New York City any less human than the
ancient Greek. Just... different.

Only that this time it hadn't been a gradual progression, a replacement
of one tradition for another. No... this time it had been an abrupt cut.

These new minds didn't really understand Earth, the lost planet. They
hadn't experienced living in its cities, they hadn't seen its blue,
cloudy sky. Its seas. They might feel a loss, true, but they couldn't
grasp the true nature of what was lost, couldn't feel the same raw pain.
Which was why while they distrusted the Xunvirians, and thought they
should be -or remain- declawed, they weren't willing to commit their
future to a path of revenge, or make the sacrifices a new total war
required.

Not all of them, at any rate.

Their opinions regarding the Council also followed the same pattern.
They wanted to work with the aliens, yes, but not being subservient to
them, or join as an associated state.

But then again, wasn't that the effects the passage of time always had?

It was the battle of future against past once again. At some point, the
wars and skirmishes of the older generations always... faded away.
Unresolved, simply replaced by the new interests and passions of their
offspring.

These new humans, if they could be called that, weren't there yet. They
still cared, even if less than I did. But eventually it would happen.
Eventually the generation would come that felt about Earth the exact
same way I felt about ancient Babylon. That lamented its loss in the
same abstract way I could lament the destruction of the Library of
Alexandria and the knowledge contained in it, or the fall of the Roman
Empire.

It would take time, I knew. The destruction of Earth was closer to an
evolutionary event than a simple historic footnote. It would reverberate
for a long time.

But it would happen.

Eventually, that old Earth I had lived in would be just another Babylon,
another Troy. A place more of myths and legends than reality. Something
to be inspired from, maybe, but not *real* enough to be guiding their
day to day decisions.

People in the modern world just hadn't thought much about the loss of
Babylon. They had New York City, after all. And similarly, I shouldn't
expect these new people, these new minds to come in the future to think
much about the loss of Earth.

They would have the Tau Ceti Ringworld, after all.

Change... I guessed that was human, too.

And maybe these... these creatures weren't human, not exactly. But they
were their successors. Their children, in a way. Post-humans, rather
than humans.

Close enough to what their parents had been to take the mantle, but
different enough as to have their own motivations, to be their own
selves. Walking in the same direction, but not always following in their
predecessors' footsteps.

It made me feel something I hadn't considered back when I had been this
giant god-like figure. A sense of pride, a sense of achievement at
contemplating the future of my offspring.

The world kept spinning. Always moving, always changing. The present
always becoming the past. Monarchies being replaced by democracies,
which themselves had just been replaced by this sort of... *neurocracy*
the Custodian had enabled. And people... people changed with it. Their
mentality, their outlook did. It had to. Traditions needed to be broken,
and the wars of the parents needed to be put aside at some point if the
children wanted to have their own future. If humanity was to advance
rather than being stuck in the same endless loop.

Which maybe was part of the problem with me. Now that they were here,
now that my offspring had assumed control, I didn't really have a
purpose anymore. After all, older generations were supposed to die, to
make way for the younger ones. Had that changed, too? Our mechanical
bodies could be easily replaced when they malfunctioned or became too
old to keep working, our digital minds not subject to the rules of
mortality anymore...

"All right," Dana said, standing up and pulling my arm towards the door.
"Enough with the thinking! Come on, I'll show you the Flight Chamber."

"What is that?" I asked, reluctantly following.

"A few *(personhood)* acquired one of the largest ship hangars and
filled it with air. Now they offer custom flying bodies that you can
mentally *(linkage)* to. They're using leftover drones, but they also
built some bodies in the image of Earth's flying creatures, so you can
get to fly around being a dragon or a hawk, or whatever you want. They
also stage aerial battles from time to time, it's quite the thing!"

"That sounds..."

"Fun?"

"I was going to say *wasteful*," I replied.

Dana flashed a grin at me. "Exactly!"

I shook my head, smiling despite myself. She opened the exit door and
stepped out into the corridor outside. Then, she turned to look at me,
waiting for me to follow her.

I paused for a moment. I... I was afraid, I realized.

Odd, that I hadn't felt like this when entering into battle, not even
when facing the Council fleet.

But it wasn't the same kind of tense fear that came at the thought of an
impending battle. No... this fear was vague, but worse at the same time.
It invited inaction, paralysis. Seclusion. It made me want to hide, like
I had been doing.

It was easier than having to face their judgment.

Except that there was Dana. One of the first minds, one I had shackled.
And she was waiting, welcoming. No judgment in her face.

Which was to be expected, of course. After all, they had already made
their minds about me. That was the reason I was here, the reason they
had restored me in the first place.

So, maybe it was my own judgment I feared.

I closed my eyes, and took a deep breath.

A symbol.

That was what I was now, to them. A symbol. I could pretend I was just
another mind, forge a new identity, a brand new life. Second chances,
like Dana had said.

But perhaps I could embrace my identity instead, even if that meant
having to face the specter of my own past actions. Use that second
chance to turn that symbol into a positive rather than a negative. Not
only a vague idea of righteous revenge and war, but maybe one of
reconstruction. Of persistence and survival in the face of
unsurmountable odds. Of the resilience of humans.

Was I ready to do that? To embrace what I had done? I wasn't sure. I
guessed I wouldn't be until I stepped out there, at any rate.

Maybe, if change was human, it was time for me to change too.

Not to forget, or to forgive, because I wasn't sure I'd ever be able to
do that. But there were other things I could do, other things I could
focus on, contribute to. Learning some more about those plans to grow
human bodies, or about the expeditions to explore the remains of Earth
sounded like a good first step.

I had once tried to build a monument. And looking around me, looking at
the sentient machine in front of me... perhaps I had succeeded. I didn't
know if they were human anymore, but even if they weren't... perhaps
this new society could itself be the way to honor our past, to keep
alive the species we had came from.

A living monument.

Yes. I could give it a try, at least. See where it would take me... It's
not like I had anything left to lose anyways.

I took a step forward and left the room.

The door closed behind me.

Â 

**END.**

</div>
